"In response to the mass shooting at the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas on October 1, 2017, two physicians at Yale New Haven Hospital shared their thoughts about the need for sensible gun control laws and the potential health consequences of political inaction.\n\nThe statements were emailed to the Register as follows:\n\nDr. Janis Orlowski, chief medical officer of the Emergency Department at Yale New Haven Hospital:\n\nAs a public health physician, I have seen the devastation that gun violence can inflict. When someone is shot, even with the best care available, that person is often still changed forever.\n\nAs an ER doctor, I have cared for young patients and parents who have been shot in schools, neighborhoods, movie theaters, and bars. I have cared for children who were victims of gun violence and parents who were killed while shielding their children.\n\nAt work, I have treated police officers and first responders who have been shot and patients with gunshot wounds who are out of surgery but will require many months or years of rehabilitation to return to normal activities.\n\nThese experiences inform my position on the need for sensible gun control laws.\n\nWe must prevent the proliferation of firearms in our communities. For too long we have tried to address gun violence through reactionary approaches. But it is clear that more laws are needed to prevent guns from falling into the hands of people who should not have them. We must also invest in mental health and suicide prevention programs, especially in communities where access to care is limited.\n\nLives are at stake. And the burden of addressing gun violence can’t fall on first responders and medical professionals. This is a public health issue.\n\nDr. Stephen Feller, Yale New Haven Hospital, vice chairman of emergency medicine:\n\nA week after the shooting at the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas, the situation is still a blur. Although I was watching on television, it is not as if I could just turn the set off. For me, as a public health physician, the hours following this tragic shooting in the Las Vegas outdoor concert venue made me even more convinced of the urgent need for sensible gun control legislation.\n\nWe are fortunate to live in a community with a number of programs for injury prevention and control. But after each mass shooting, we see the damage that one person can do.\n\nEach incident is more devastating than the last and is becoming more frequent. The results are horrendous: numbers of deaths and injuries, but also a shift in our thinking that no longer view such incidents as a remote possibility.\n\nI agree with Dr. Orlowski and the many other colleagues who have shared their thoughts on the need for sensible gun control legislation.\n\nIf you have questions or comments about this column, please contact Dr. Orlowski at jorlowski@ynhh.org.