With all the talk in the last couple of weeks about a superfight between Manny Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather, there is a feeling that we are approaching the end of an era. Mayweather is widely considered one of the best fighters of his generation and, if he chooses to hang up the gloves, it will be the end of a perfect run.\n\nThere is no doubt that Mayweather has cemented his legacy with this run, but we have seen the perfect run come to an end in the past. Oscar De La Hoya comes to mind. The now retired boxer had a perfect run of his own.\n\nWhile De La Hoya lost a few of his middleweight fights, he got back on track with a string of victories at welterweight and lightweight. De La Hoya then ran through every fighter in his way to win two world titles at light middleweight. He then went on to dominate another series of fighters. He knocked out Felix Trinidad in 2001. That fight was the best example of Oscar’s career because he faced a much bigger opponent.\n\nTrinidad weighed in a little bit over 170 pounds while De La Hoya was right at 154 pounds. Even though Trinidad was bigger, De La Hoya did not worry. The Mexican boxer used his speed and technique to win a unanimous decision. Trinidad was never the same after the fight.\n\nThen De La Hoya won the welterweight title by defeating Shane Mosley by unanimous decision. Mosley was at his peak and people were excited for the possibility of the rematch. De La Hoya also fought and defeated Miguel Cotto. Cotto was another guy who did not want to give De La Hoya credit, but the boxing world understood who won that fight.\n\nDe La Hoya had several great performances in 2002. The boxer beat Felix Sturm and former super middleweight champion Roy Jones Jr. Oscar also beat Arturo Gatti. Gatti was a great fighter who never received the recognition he deserved.\n\nThen came 2003 and De La Hoya was dominating like no other. He faced Shane Mosley again and looked incredible in the fight. De La Hoya took some shots, but got out of the way and won a unanimous decision. Oscar then stopped Zab Judah in a very exciting fight. De La Hoya also won against Ike Quartey.\n\nThat was the end of De La Hoya’s perfect run. It was the peak of his career. After that, he just started to decline. He fought Felix Sturm again and lost a decision. He had one more good fight against Antonio Margarito, but then he got knocked out by Bernard Hopkins. He lost that fight in the 9th round.\n\nDe La Hoya also lost his following fight against Shane Mosley in 2007. De La Hoya also lost his next fight against Manny Pacquiao. That fight showed a huge decline in De La Hoya’s boxing skills. De La Hoya would never fight again.\n\nPeople also point to the rise of Manny Pacquiao as a sign of De La Hoya’s decline. While that is true, the decline did not start in the Pacquiao fight. In that fight, De La Hoya just got stopped. After that fight, De La Hoya would only win once in his final five fights. De La Hoya was a shell of his former self. He was never able to recover from his decline.\n\nPacquiao would go on to dominate the next few years of boxing. Mayweather also started to dominate the division. In that sense, De La Hoya was unlucky to face Pacquiao and Mayweather during their best years. That was not his fault.\n\nWhile Pacquiao and Mayweather are fighters with big personalities and huge followings, De La Hoya was a fighter who dominated the boxing world in his prime. It is unfortunate that he got into boxing too late to make the most of his talent.