...Rather than simple self-help, this book represents what it should be - a collaborative work between the writer and his/her therapist to ensure maximum understanding and success. - Robert M. Corry, M.D., in his review in Psychotherapy\n\n…Clear, practical, and insightful. - Frederick Chapman, M.D., Harvard Medical School\n\nDavid Cohen, M.D. has written a manual on depression that will help many who suffer with this debilitating condition to recognize that there is hope for recovery. More importantly, his description of effective treatments available today is evidence of the tremendous advances in this field. He has done a wonderful job in providing the reader with easy to understand information about depression and how to overcome it. - Daniel J. Vitiello, M.D.\n\nEditorial Board Member, Journal of Affective Disorders\n\n...Presents a wealth of ideas that are written in an easy to read and accessible style. - Library Journal\n\n...From description to treatment, there is something in this book for all readers. - John Guilford, M.D., Clinical Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC\n\n...Dr. Cohen's book is the first on the market to deal in detail with the nonmedical therapies available for the treatment of depression and to be accessible to both patients and their families. It is a valuable contribution to the literature and deserves to be widely read. - E.E. Riley, Ph.D., in his Foreword\n\n...Cohen discusses in simple terms the pathophysiology of depression, the cognitive/behavioral theories of depression, the treatment of depression, and provides information about organizations that may be able to help. The author's descriptions of medications, both antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications, are accurate and detailed. The reader can feel confident that the medication section is accurate, without the endless descriptions found in other books. The key point to remember is that the medications are not the "cure" for depression. Instead, they are used to provide a way of breaking through a "state of learned helplessness" and providing a method to help the patient engage in a treatment program. This is the key point in the book. In order to help those suffering with depression, Dr. Cohen believes that the medical profession has a responsibility to refer patients to a "team" which will help them get over their depression and learn to cope with the problem. This book will give the layperson a much-needed introduction to the field of depression, the various treatments, and how they work. It is written in an easy-to-understand language and provides references for the reader to pursue if the reader wishes to know more about the topic. - Richard H. Price, Ph.D., Past President, Academy of Cognitive Therapy\n\n...All those who are dealing with depression will appreciate this practical guide. It is written in a clear, direct manner. Those who are serious about becoming well will find in Dr. Cohen a knowledgeable and empathic guide. - Rev. Marybeth Twichell, Ph.D.\n\nThe excerpt from the Foreword, "The Practical Guide for Persons With Depression," by Dr. E.E. Riley is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "A Friend to Help Along the Way," by Dr. Daniel J. Vitiello is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "The Working Alliance," by Dr. Robert M. Corry is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "A Different Perspective on Depression," by Dr. John Guilford is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Keeping the Ball Rolling," by Dr. Frederick Chapman is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "A Review of Common Medications," by Dr. Richard H. Price is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Excerpts from 'Depression - What Every Clinician Should Know'," by Rev. Marybeth Twichell is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Fantastic Resource for Persons Who are Coping with Depression," by Dr. Daniel J. Vitiello is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "The Treatment of Depression," by Rev. Marybeth Twichell is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Dr. Cohen's Story of Success," by Dr. E.E. Riley is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Respecting Depression and its Sufferers," by Dr. Robert M. Corry is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "A New Paradigm of Depression," by Dr. John Guilford is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Facing Depression Together," by Dr. Frederick Chapman is reprinted with permission of the author. The excerpt from the Foreword, "Depression: The Last Great Challenge," by Dr. Richard H. Price is reprinted with permission of the author.