UNAFF\n\nUnited Nations Office for Partnerships\n\nUNAFF is a partnership between UNESCO and the United Nations. It aims to promote educational, scientific and cultural co-operation between countries.\n\nUNESCO was created to provide leadership in the field of culture, science, education and communication. UNAFF seeks to find the best way to harness the organization's efforts in order to promote the well-being of humankind.\n\nUNAFF's mission is to build global networks of partnerships to maximize the potential of the United Nations system. The UNAFF staff acts as a catalyst for partnerships between UN organizations and others who share an interest in education, culture, science and communication. The UNAFF office is located in New York City, and staff visits offices and missions around the world to help facilitate the partnerships they seek to create.\n\nA partnership is an association based on a set of agreements and shared objectives between two or more independent organizations. Partnerships may be long-term, short-term, formal or informal, or may even lack all of these elements. However, they must be based on some shared element, such as common goals or resources. A partnership will generally be constituted by contracts between the partners, and sometimes even by laws passed by the partners. Partnerships often involve more than two parties, and partnerships with many participants may be highly complex, such as a joint venture.\n\nSome partnerships are termed "loose" and are created by only an exchange of information, such as by sharing ideas between academic researchers or by the sharing of interests between firms. Others are termed "tight" and are created by legal contracts.\n\nIn some partnerships, the creation of an organization is the desired outcome, while others will be created in order to achieve specific objectives.\n\nWhile partnerships can be and are created to achieve an enormous range of objectives, they can be categorized based on their purpose and the extent of the commitment involved.\n\nSome common types of partnerships include:\n\nThese are partnerships that share a wide variety of resources, such as between a business and its supplier or a university and its students. These partnerships are often not formal, and the extent of sharing of resources can range from very open to very closed. These partnerships tend to be more fluid and easily created and broken.\n\nThese are organizations which have been created to achieve a specific shared objective, and as such often involve long-term commitments and the pooling of resources. Some common examples of these are charitable organizations, clubs, and other associations. These partnerships are often long-term, but the resource pooling will tend to be less complete than in the other forms.\n\nThese are partnerships which have been created to achieve a common objective. While these often result in the creation of a new organization, they do not have to. Some of these partnerships are undertaken to achieve a specific goal. These are the most common partnerships, and can range from a wide variety of forms.\n\nIn order to create a partnership, partners must first identify the following:\n\nPartnership types may also require specific partners:\n\nBecause partnerships can take a wide variety of forms, with widely varying levels of resource pooling, it can be hard to define what an organization is, and even harder to define a partnership. However, one useful way to describe an organization is as a partnership of organizations.\n\nA partnership is typically defined as a relationship between two or more independent organizations that is based on shared objectives, and involves some level of resource pooling. As a partnership, each organization in the relationship shares decision-making authority with other partners in the relationship.\n\nMany partnerships involve long-term commitments. However, they can be as short-term as the common agreement between two people who decide to meet for lunch, to the long-term commitment between members of a religious order. However, a long-term commitment may be desired because the resources being pooled will be shared for a long time.\n\nWhile partnerships are often the result of long-term commitments, some partners will wish to enter into more short-term relationships. Many partnerships, such as those between religious orders, are essentially long-term commitments, but in many of these cases there are temporary partners, such as the members of a temporary monastic order or the people who participate in a retreat.\n\nIt is important that each partner is fully informed of the agreement before entering into a partnership. If this is not done, then partners can come to feel deceived if they are not kept informed. This can lead to the failure of the partnership.\n\nMost partnerships have a shared set of objectives. These will typically be defined by the partners. The partnership may then be created in order to achieve these objectives. It is important to note that a lack of clarity on these objectives will cause the partnership to be less effective, and the lack of these objectives can cause the partnership to fail.\n\nMany partnerships also require that some resources be pooled between partners. The resources which are pooled will depend on the objective of the partnership. If the partners have created a shared organization, then some of the shared resources may be those of the organization. In the case of partnerships to achieve a specific objective, the resources may be less tangible.\n\nSome resources which are commonly pooled between partners are:\n\nPartnerships can be terminated in a number of ways. If a partnership is intended to be long-term, this can be achieved by either of the partners. However, if the partnership is only intended to achieve a specific goal, then it can only be terminated when that goal has been achieved.\n\nPartnerships can also end when the partners cannot come to an agreement on something. For example, when a company and its suppliers cannot come to an agreement on the price of a product, they may decide to terminate the partnership.\n\nIn order for partners to have a successful partnership, they must be able to communicate effectively. Effective communication can take many forms, from simply keeping each other informed of progress to a detailed exchange of plans and resources.\n\nIf communication is not effective, the partners will not be able to coordinate their actions. This can cause the partnership to fail, as well as create conflict between the partners. This can also lead to the partners trying to achieve the same goals by different means, which may also lead to failure.\n\nIt is important for each partner to understand the others' culture, as this will be a major influence on the actions that each of them take.\n\nA number of problems can arise in a partnership, and many are common to all partnerships.\n\nConflict is a common problem in any type of partnership. If partners are not communicating, then they may end up in conflict because they are pursuing different goals. Conflict can also arise if partners are pursuing the same goal but are taking different approaches to achieve this goal.\n\nConflict can lead to a number of other problems in a partnership. It can cause partners to become distracted from the original objective. It can also lead to damage to the relationship between partners, or even to the termination of the partnership.\n\nConflict may also arise due to distrust. This may be caused by a lack of communication. If a partner is unsure of the motives of another partner, they may believe that the other partner has an ulterior motive.\n\nThis is a type of trust conflict which can arise between partners. If partners believe that they will not receive what they have been promised, then they will not trust the other partner.\n\nConflict between partners can cause each to take action which does not serve the partnership well. This can include both partners taking more or less than they should of a resource. It can also cause partners to take other actions which damage the partnership.\n\nA lack of communication can cause conflict, as described above. This is common in partnerships which are not well planned or well organized. However, this may not cause conflict.\n\nWhile conflict is usually viewed as a negative event, this need not be the case. Conflict between partners can also lead to greater collaboration. For example, if two partners have conflicting views, they may come to a better conclusion if they discuss the differences. This can help them understand each other's point of view. This process may also lead them to agree on an objective that is better than either would have developed alone.\n\nIn many partnerships, partners will take actions which affect the other partners. These may be either intended or unintended.\n\nIf a partner takes an action which negatively affects another partner, this can cause problems in the partnership. In some cases, this may be deliberate. For example, a partner may take an action which causes another partner to suffer a loss.\n\nIn other cases, this may be an unintentional side-effect of a partner's actions. For example, a partner may open a business in a location where a competitor already has a shop.\n\nA partner who takes an action which affects another partner, but does not have the other partner's best interests in mind may be said to have acted in bad faith.\n\nA partner who fails to understand the concerns of another partner may be said to have acted in bad faith. For example, if a company closes a factory, and its workers are upset because of this, the company may not have understood that it was the workers who would be affected.\n\nConflicts of interest are a specific type of action which is intended to benefit one partner at the expense of another. These can be very specific, such as the use of one partner's resources by another partner without permission.\n\nIn other cases, conflicts of interest can be much more subtle, such as when a partner proposes a goal for a partnership that may not benefit all partners.\n\nConflicts of interest can be addressed by ensuring that the partners in a partnership share the same objectives, and also by ensuring that each partner receives something. If a partner is providing resources to the partnership, then the other partners should ensure that they receive something of value in return. If