Self-Selection and Pupils’ Labour Market Outcomes\n\nYoung adults from low socioeconomic status backgrounds are significantly less likely to go to university than their better-off peers. There is a significant self-selection in the probability of attending university and of high A-level achievement, which are key drivers of university participation. This paper exploits the introduction of minimum attainment targets in the National Curriculum for schools to explore the impact of early education policies on students’ achievement and on their likelihood to study at university. We find that when minimum attainment targets are introduced, pupils from low socioeconomic status backgrounds are more likely to reach higher grade boundaries in the A-level exams, are more likely to go to university, and are more likely to study science or maths degrees.\n\nContents\n\nIntroduction\n\nData and methods\n\nAnalysis\n\nDiscussion\n\nConclusion\n\nIntroduction\n\nUniversity participation in the UK has grown substantially since the early 1990s. There are now 1.4 million undergraduates, which is almost double the number in 1992. However, participation rates have remained relatively low among those from lower socioeconomic groups (Furlong and Millar, 2008). For example, 40 per cent of young adults from high-income backgrounds were participating in higher education in 2011-12, compared to 21 per cent from the poorest fifth of families.\n\nTo some extent, low participation among young people from less advantaged backgrounds is to be expected given the historical association of university education with privileged groups. Participation rates increased significantly in the 1960s, after state support for university was extended to less affluent groups. Participation rose further during the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, but then stagnated in the 1990s and declined slightly after 2002. Only in the past decade has participation among the less well-off again risen to the levels recorded in the early 1990s (see Figure 1).\n\nFigure 1. University participation rates by parental income, 1962-2012\n\nNote: Figures are cohort entry rates for those who went to university in each year. Sources: Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (2014); Sutton Trust/Ipsos Mori (2012); Education Policy Institute (2013).\n\nDespite increased participation, the gap in participation rates between young people from more and less advantaged backgrounds is still large, even after controlling for qualifications. On average, young people from the most advantaged fifth of families are about twice as likely to go to university as those from the least advantaged fifth (see Figure 2).\n\nFigure 2. Proportion of young people who go to university by family income, 1996-2012\n\nSource: Participation rates (log scale) are from the UCAS End of Cycle Reports, 1996-2012. The relative income quintiles are from the Family Resources Survey, 2008-2012. The quintiles have been adjusted to allow for comparison across years by using a fixed poverty line.\n\nAt a recent seminar organised by the ESRC Centre for the Microeconomic Analysis of Public Policy, Professor Martin Brown (2012) suggested that it is ‘a great mystery why this gap is not widening even more’. He also pointed out that there is a significant self-selection in the probability of attending university and of high A-level achievement, which are key drivers of university participation. It is well-known that, in addition to their socio-economic background, non-cognitive skills, such as motivation, are important predictors of academic achievement. Since the increase in university participation has been driven by the growth in participation of less advantaged groups, it is not surprising that it has also been associated with a fall in the average grades of university entrants.\n\nThis paper is motivated by this observation, that early education policies have played an important role in the increase in participation among less advantaged groups. We focus on two such policies: the requirement to meet minimum attainment targets in English, mathematics and science, and the national literacy and numeracy strategies. We explore the impact of these policies on students’ achievement and on their likelihood to study at university. We find that when minimum attainment targets are introduced, pupils from low socioeconomic status backgrounds are more likely to reach higher grade boundaries in the A-level exams, are more likely to go to university, and are more likely to study science or maths degrees. We also find that the increase in the A-level scores and the higher participation rate associated with the introduction of minimum attainment targets cannot be explained by the improvement in the overall level of academic performance in schools or by the lower socioeconomic status of those schools that introduced minimum attainment targets.\n\nData and methods\n\nTo analyse the impact of minimum attainment targets, we use the school-level dataset that the Department for Education makes available annually for the National Pupil Database (NPD). The NPD contains rich information about individual pupils and their schools. We first use the NPD to examine the evolution of achievement at the end of compulsory education by using cohort-level information on final examinations. We then explore the impact of minimum attainment targets using changes in the composition of achievement. The results we present in this paper are robust to the alternative methods of analysis of achievement levels and changes in the composition of achievement.\n\nIn the first stage of our analysis, we explore the evolution of the A-level examination results by using the cohort-level information on final examinations. To study the evolution of achievement at the end of compulsory education, we use the data on A-level grades in GCSE and A-level examinations from 1996 to 2012. In this period, the examinations have changed significantly, from the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) to the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) and the A-level examinations. The A-level examination was first introduced in the early 1950s as an academically rigorous alternative to the less selective B-level examinations (Wynne, 2010). Until 1988, A-level grades (i.e. O/A levels) were assigned by teachers, not by the students. From 1988, the responsibility for grading moved to schools. The examination was revised in the early 1990s, after which it was separated into two components: A-level and AS-level. The A-level examinations were re-structured in 2000. Most importantly, the exams have become linear rather than modular. The exams in each subject are now taken at the end of the two-year course. The exams are now externally assessed, and the grade is assigned according to the nationally defined A-level grade boundaries. The percentage of the cohort that sat the A-level examinations increased from about two-thirds in the early 1990s to more than 90 per cent in the mid-2000s. This reflects a policy shift in the assessment of vocational qualifications, which reduced the proportion of vocational qualifications that counted towards a student’s A-level grade.\n\nWe use a slightly modified version of the grading system developed by Hayward, Parry and Stewart (2009) and Bias et al. (2011). We use a scale of 5 grades to assess the performance of students in different subjects: 5 is an ‘A*’ grade, 4 is an ‘A’ grade, 3 is a ‘B’ grade, 2 is a ‘C’ grade and 1 is a ‘D’ grade. The best possible grade in each subject is an ‘A*’. This grading system differs from the one used in most of the existing analyses of A-level results, which use an A-E grading system. The difference between the two grading systems is illustrated in Figure 3, which shows that about 60 per cent of the students in the upper grade boundary of ‘A*’ under the old system would be below the upper boundary of ‘A*’ under the new system. Similarly, about 45 per cent of the students in the lower boundary of ‘C’ would be in the upper boundary of ‘C’ under the old system, and about 25 per cent of students in the lower boundary of ‘C’ would be in the upper boundary of ‘C’ under the new system. We expect that the increase in the A-level scores associated with the change in the grading system will be smaller for subjects that were not directly affected by the reform, such as English, maths and science. We do not analyse students’ performance in the core and non-core subjects, because data on the subject of A-level examination was not available for every pupil.\n\nFigure 3. Grading scales of GCSE and A-level examinations\n\nIn Figure 4, we present the cumulative distribution of A-level scores for each cohort, by the subject studied. Figure 5 shows that the average A-level score increased from a little less than ‘C’ in 1996 to more than ‘C’ in 2012, which is consistent with the improvement in the average GCSE results. The gap in the average grades between different subjects remained stable. The increase in the average A-level grades was particularly large in science subjects and in humanities subjects. We do not find evidence of a widening gap in A-level scores between the richest and the poorest students. In the humanities subjects, there is some evidence of an increase in the A-level scores of the less well-off. However, the increase in the average A-level scores was so large that the difference in the average scores between the richest and the poorest students decreased even though it was not eliminated.\n\nFigure 4. Cumulative distribution of A-level scores in different subjects, 1996-2012\n\nSource: National Pupil Database, Department for Education.\n\nFigure 5. Average A-level scores, by subject, 1996-2012\n\nSource: National Pupil Database, Department for Education.\n\nA key issue in the analyses of trends in A-level achievement is the impact of the increase in the proportion of students taking A-level examinations on the average score