One of the most-anticipated movie adaptations in years, The Fault in Our Stars was always going to be a risky one. On the one hand, you've got a story by a YA author and a fanbase who are well-versed in dissecting the themes in a story, but on the other hand, you've got a mainstream story in a popular genre, with its major appeal lying in its romantic tragedy. How can the movie balance these things? Well, there are a few answers, but we'll have to wait to see if they work.\n\n1. Write a film that serves the story.\n\nThe author of The Fault in Our Stars is, to put it politely, quite popular, and it's because the story is not only good, but also captures a range of topics that can be discussed on a basic level, but can be deconstructed on a deeper level. It was for this reason that I became so interested in the book, but as is often the case with readers of this kind, the story is often not as important as the commentary. But since this is a film, the story does matter. This movie will rely on the emotion of the story to make the film work, and if that emotion is strained, it will come across in the film.\n\n2. Choose the right actors.\n\nThe casting of The Fault in Our Stars is extremely important, as this story hinges on the chemistry between the actors. If they don't work well together, the audience won't buy their romance, and the actors have to make the connection between the two characters believable. The actors in this case seem to fit the bill, but the chemistry will have to come from the on-screen actors. They won't have the shared history that the book is so interested in, and so will have to create the relationship from scratch, which will be interesting to see if they can do.\n\n3. Avoid clichés.\n\nSince the source material for the film is a YA novel, there are a few tropes to avoid, which the film can get away with if it plays it right. One of the most obvious is the "true love" aspect. The Fault in Our Stars has to have this, but it also has to deal with the fact that the girl is terminally ill, and this has to be a large part of the film, and a convincing reason for why she and the boy would be together. As is so often the case, the theme of "true love" is a major part of the book, but it can't be played out in a typical way.\n\n4. Don't dwell on the illness.\n\nA major part of the appeal of The Fault in Our Stars is that the two characters have cancer. That's an important part of the story, but there are other things that need to be addressed as well, which can get lost if the illness is treated in a way that's over-the-top. The story can certainly deal with the fact that the boy is at risk of dying, but it also needs to focus on the fact that the girl is also in the same position, and the fact that they are both fighting to be together. If they get lost in their illness, the film could"