1. It's "firmware" not "firm ware." Try to get a better handle on your grammar before you get your grammar wrong.\n\n2. Calling something a "feature" doesn't make it a feature. It's a mislabeling. The way these displays are lit up is a hardware implementation of a "gradient." The gradient of color is the "feature" of the gradient, not the entire display.\n\n3. The function of a gradient in this case is not to "determine" color or value, it is to make the display more aesthetically pleasing. There is a huge difference.\n\n4. The system was designed by people who knew how to do lighting in a way that adds visual interest. There is a reason that their work was considered "taste-based." It was designed by people who knew how to do lighting. Lighting is all about creating mood and impact, not function.\n\n5. The system was designed so that it would be physically impossible to light all the light sources the same, that way there would be no color "accurate" (read "unpleasing") way to light the display. As long as people can see it clearly, it will never be "accurate."\n\n6. In this application, color accuracy is the least of the concerns, and it is not the main consideration. It is a display, not a video image.\n\n7. If the numbers of the OLEDs are off, they will still light up. They will not "burn in." A long exposure to a dark scene will turn the display black, and that's all there is to it.\n\n8. Those are just panels with color filters over them. They are not LEDs. The whites are not being filtered, they are being lit up as one.\n\n9. Because they are lit up individually and not together as a whole, the panels do not "add up" to make the perceived color and intensity of light. It's a bit like red, green and blue, and how they do not really "add up" to make a full white light. (And the full white you see is more likely white than red, green or blue).\n\n10. Just because you can prove that something is "not black" doesn't make it "not black." There are more than a few tungsten lamps out there that aren't really "black," but people would be pretty annoyed if you said they weren't really "black."\n\n11. White LEDs are also not the most "color accurate" light source out there. They have to be filtered to get that way. If you don't filter them, you don't get the same white as if you did filter them.\n\n12. People actually are aware of color. It is not as if they cannot distinguish color differences. They may not see every single pixel of difference, but they are still going to see differences. They can distinguish a difference between an "R" and an "L" in some fonts. If you put those two letters side by side, the difference will be visible. It is not going to look identical to them.\n\n13. "Accurate color" is a subjective term. What may be accurate to you may not be accurate to me.\n\n14. Just because a company makes an extra $10 by selling you a part that does something that it was not designed for doesn't make it right. It just means you are getting ripped off.\n\n15. Yes, the color of the display is very important to the perception of the light in the environment, but it is not the only factor.\n\n16. Not all blue LEDs are the same. In fact, the blue from blue LEDs changes with age. You have to take this into account in your designs.\n\n17. No, it is not impossible to change the light of a display.\n\n18. Yes, you can still get better uniformity if you combine the LEDs into one panel. You will also get better efficiency, but the screen won't look as good.\n\n19. The individual LEDs can only emit a certain amount of light. They cannot magically produce more.\n\n20. You can get even better efficiency if you replace the red and green LEDs with white LEDs. It is a tradeoff, though. It is not a free lunch.\n\n21. LEDs emit light in a different range of color than the human eye can detect. They have a certain distribution of color, not a specific one.\n\n22. Because the color distribution of the LEDs is not the same as the human eye, you have to modify the LEDs to make them appear to the human eye as if they were emitting the correct color light.\n\n23. The human eye is not linear, which is what is being assumed. This is what allows you to see the color of white. It is also what allows you to perceive the color of a cloudy sky.\n\n24. If you want to look at "color accuracy," take a look at the color of the light in the environment that the display is in. It will be different in each of them. The difference between the human eye and a camera is also a huge consideration, as cameras are not very good at capturing all of the available color in an image.\n\n25. Blue LEDs do not go through a filter to be blue. They are actually more "white" than blue, so you have to color-filter them. This is not necessarily an "extra" step, as it does not have to be done to "make them blue."\n\n26. You can make a good case for certain LEDs being "super blue," but you cannot make a case that they are "super red." Red is the hardest color for LEDs to produce. You can make the case that you can produce more "pure" red than can be seen by the human eye, but you cannot make the case that you can produce more "pure" red than can be produced by a red LED.\n\n27. If the LEDs can do something "super" (in this case, "super red"), then the LEDs can do something "normal" (in this case, "normal red.") There is no free lunch, there are just tradeoffs.\n\n28. Trying to compare "new" with "old" (to sell you something) is an old, well-established, tired sales technique.\n\n29. You can say a person has 20/20 vision, but you cannot say a display has "perfect color."\n\n30. Yes, OLEDs can do things that no other display technology can do. They can also do things that some other display technologies can do. That does not mean that you can't make a display that has features that OLEDs don't have.\n\n31. You can make a display that has good color rendition, that is not an OLED. It just means you are not using OLEDs.\n\n32. Just because a manufacturer says "this is what you are going to get" doesn't mean you are going to get it. If you need something that is color accurate, you need to specify it. If you do not, then you get what they give you.\n\n33. If you look at a display and you say "it looks too blue," then you are probably right. But that doesn't mean it is inaccurate. That just means you are looking at it the way you would look at it in real life.\n\n34. There are many factors that influence color perception in a viewing environment. There is no single factor that influences color perception in a viewing environment.\n\n35. Color accuracy is just one aspect of the human visual system, and just because it is not the only aspect does not make it not the only aspect.\n\n36. If you are a designer, you have to understand the limits of the technology and the product that you are working with. If you do not, then you are not going to be very successful.\n\n37. People like to think that designers can control everything, but they can't. It's just a fact of life.\n\n38. The human visual system is much more complicated than a display or a camera.\n\n39. Just because a technology has a lot of colors, it doesn't mean you have to use all of them.\n\n40. Just because a display can produce a certain color, it doesn't mean you have to use it.\n\n41. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display is not a light source. A display