Marocs\n\nMarocs was a slave from Ghana in West Africa who was brought to St. Augustine in Spanish Florida around 1740. His life there became the basis of a plantation diary written by Francis Le Jau in 1741. The diary and other documents were later published as "The Journal of Francis Le Jau, 1741–1743", by Richard Hakluyt (the pseudonym of a 19th-century English writer). In the document Marocs and his fellow slaves are described as being part of the possessions of Captain Francisco Menendez Márquez, who died and willed them to his nephew Captain Don Jose Menéndez Márquez. \n\nAt the time of Le Jau's journal, Marocs had become a trusted member of the household, handling business transactions on the plantation. On August 5, 1742, he signed a contract of manumission with Captain Don Jose Menéndez Márquez. He became a free man, and was set up with a farm and a lifetime income, in exchange for his work as a steward on the plantation.\n\nSome time later, he was accused of killing a slave of his neighbour, Charles de Sauvinet. Marocs was sent to St. Augustine for trial, but was acquitted due to a lack of evidence. The local Spanish governor and slave owners took Marocs' acquittal as an insult, and made him wear an iron collar to publicly declare his guilt. The collar was fastened with an iron chain and ring around his neck and he was locked to the wall of the courthouse. Marocs would stay in St. Augustine for the next 12 years until the colonial government collapsed during the American Revolution.\n\nMarocs became a symbol of African resistance and a rallying cry for slaves during the Stono Rebellion of September 9, 1739. The rebellion of slaves and African free men, planned and carried out by a slave named Jemmy, began with an armed group of about twenty men killing two British traders. They marched south to the St. Augustine Parish church, where they broke into the weapons store. They then broke into the house of the militia leader, Lieutenant Governor William Bull. After killing him, the rebels marched to the St. Johns River, where they seized boats and rowed to freedom across the Santee River into the interior of South Carolina. There were 60 or so participants in the revolt, with 40 of them escaping and the rest either killed or captured. The colonial militia and British Army killed many of the captured rebels.\n\nThe Stono rebellion started a series of revolts in the British colonies. The revolt started the movement to end the slave trade and slavery in the Thirteen Colonies and led to the declaration of independence by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776.\n\n\n