Founded in 1835, McMurdo Station is one of the three Antarctic research facilities operated by the United States through the National Science Foundation (NSF). With over one hundred buildings located in the Ross Dependency of Antarctica, McMurdo Station is the largest community on the continent.\n\nThe main body of the station lies on the shore of McMurdo Sound, which is located on the coast of Victoria Land. The station is named after the explorer, Lieutenant Archibald McMurdo. He was a participant in the British expedition led by James Clark Ross to the Antarctic.\n\nThe British explorer Robert Falcon Scott also participated in the Ross expedition. He discovered the body of Lieutenant Edward Adrian Wilson, which lay next to a makeshift grave on Hut Point. He died while accompanying Scott on his first expedition to the South Pole. Wilson was a member of the McMurdo-Scott party.\n\nMcMurdo Station has been used by scientists since 1956. The first summer-only research base, named Base E, was opened in 1955. It was built on the upper reaches of the McMurdo Ice Shelf, about 4.5 kilometers from the present station.\n\nThe Base E site was selected in 1954 and built over the next two years by the men of the U.S. Navy. The men came from the ships of the U.S. 7th Fleet, and named their home after Admiral Richard E. Byrd, who established the first Antarctic base, in the Bay of Whales in 1929.\n\nThe first winter-only field camp was established by the United States Army in 1955, at the suggestion of Admiral Byrd. The camp, called Deep Freeze I, was located at the foot of the Dry Valleys, in Wilkes Land, about 150 kilometers inland from the Antarctic coast.\n\nThe station is often used as a scientific field camp for short periods of time, in conjunction with long-term expeditions to the area. Some of the research projects currently being conducted at McMurdo Station include:\n\n• studying the East Antarctic Ice Sheet\n\n• examining the soils and plant life of the Antarctic continent\n\n• researching the chemical reactions of hydrochloric acid on sea salt\n\n• learning more about the effects of climate change on the Antarctic environment\n\nMcMurdo Station features a small hospital that is staffed by two doctors, a dentist, a physician’s assistant and two registered nurses. There is also a small medical clinic located in Scott Base, as well as a dispensary located at a camp set up by the United States Antarctic Program.\n\nFor more than forty years, McMurdo Station was the largest base in Antarctica. In January, 2010, the new Russian research station called the “Shackleton” was opened in the heart of the Antarctic continent. The Russian station features one hundred and twenty-four beds, making it the largest base in the region.\n\nPhoto credit: Michael Melford/National Science Foundation