"Jubal Early\n\nJubal Anderson Early (July 14, 1816July 2, 1894) was a Confederate general in the American Civil War and a politician after the war. Although he served almost the entire war in the eastern theater, his most significant contributions were in the Valley Campaigns of 1864, which ended in the stalemate at Petersburg, Virginia, and the capture of the Union garrison at Lynchburg, Virginia. Early is considered among the best Confederate generals who never served in the Army of Northern Virginia.\n\nEarly was born in Southampton County, Virginia, the seventh of ten children of Ruth (Anderson) Early and Judge John Early, a former governor of Virginia and member of the United States Congress. In 1825, Early attended Charlotte Hall Military Academy. He graduated second in his class at the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1838, placing him above such future generals as Stonewall Jackson and Ulysses S. Grant.\n\nEarly was appointed a second lieutenant in the 4th U.S. Artillery. He served as an aide to General Winfield Scott in the War with Mexico and fought in the Battle of Molino del Rey and the Battle of Chapultepec. Early served as the acting chief of artillery in the assault on the city of Mexico, and received two brevets for his bravery in these battles. He was one of the first officers to enter Mexico City, and he served as an artillery instructor at West Point from 1847 to 1852. Early served as a major in the United States Army in the Seminole Wars in 1855, and as a captain in the United States Dragoons in 1858.\n\nEarly entered the Virginia Military Institute in 1852, and became a professor of mathematics at the Institute, where he taught until the Civil War. He was known for his severity as a disciplinarian. Early became known as a superb military tactician and administrator, as well as an able administrator and strategist.\n\nIn 1860, Early entered politics, running as a Democrat for one of the two seats in the Virginia House of Delegates from Southampton County, but he was defeated. The state seceded from the Union on April 17, 1861, and Early was commissioned as a colonel of artillery in the Virginia militia on May 14. When Virginia militia units were activated for Confederate service, Early was appointed a brigadier general of Virginia forces on May 27.\n\nEarly initially commanded a brigade in the brigade of Brig. Gen. Richard B. Garnett. When Garnett died at the Battle of Mill Springs, Early was promoted to brigadier general on January 16, 1862. His brigade was assigned to Maj. Gen. Edmund Kirby Smith's division in the Army of Northern Virginia. Early fought in the Peninsula Campaign, including the Siege of Yorktown, during which his brigade was an important factor in repulsing a Union assault on the right flank of the Confederate entrenchments at Savage's Station. Early received praise for his actions at Hanover Court House.\n\nEarly distinguished himself during the Seven Days Battles. He received his commission as a major in the Confederate Regular Army on June 9, 1862, but was later returned to his previous rank of colonel in the reserves. During the Northern Virginia Campaign, he received plaudits for his actions at the Second Battle of Bull Run.\n\nEarly was promoted to brigadier general in the Confederate regular army on October 11, 1862. He was given command of a brigade in Maj. Gen. Robert E. Rodes's division of A.P. Hill's III Corps. During the Maryland Campaign, Early performed well at the Battle of South Mountain.\n\nDuring the Battle of Fredericksburg, Early was severely wounded in the right thigh and temporarily assigned to administrative duties. He returned to the field in time to defeat Union Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker's offensive at the Battle of Chancellorsville. At Chancellorsville, Early performed ably in combat and earned praise for his conduct as a brigade commander. Early was sent to western Virginia, where he defeated Union Maj. Gen. William S. Rosecrans at the Battle of Mill Springs. After Chancellorsville, Early was promoted to the permanent rank of brigadier general in the Confederate Regular Army on May 21, 1863, and given command of a division.\n\nEarly fought under Maj. Gen. Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson during the Valley Campaigns of 1864. Early's old brigade was reassigned to Maj. Gen. Richard H. Anderson. The Second Battle of Kernstown was his most significant contribution during the Valley Campaigns. Following the Valley Campaigns, Early was assigned to Maj. Gen. John C. Breckinridge's command in the Shenandoah Valley.\n\nHe conducted the Valley Campaigns of 1864. Following Early's victory at the Battle of Lynchburg in June 1864, Early's army became separated by Union Maj. Gen. David Hunter's raid. Hunter's force was driven from the Valley in the Battle of Lynchburg by Early's troops. During the Valley Campaigns, Early defeated Union Maj. Gen. George Crook at the Battle of Rutherford's Farm and the Battle of Tom's Brook, drove Maj. Gen. David Hunter from the Valley in the Second Battle of Kernstown, and defeated Union Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan at the Third Battle of Winchester.\n\nEarly defeated Union Maj. Gen. David Hunter's Valley Campaign in the Second Battle of Kernstown in July 1864. He then crossed into Maryland and threatened Washington, D.C., forcing Grant to send reinforcements to the capital area. During the subsequent Valley Campaigns of 1864, Early defeated Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan at the Battle of Opequon, the Third Battle of Winchester, and the Battle of Fisher's Hill. Sheridan's victory at the Battle of Cedar Creek forced Early to retreat back to the Valley.\n\nEarly was assigned to the Department of the West and ordered to reinforce the Confederate Army of Tennessee, but Maj. Gen. John C. Breckinridge convinced him to resist Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman's advance. At the beginning of the Atlanta Campaign, Early was given command of the newly created Third Corps of the Army of Tennessee. During the Battle of Resaca, he launched an unsuccessful assault against a Union fortification on the western bank of the Oostenaula River, suffering heavy casualties. During the subsequent battles of Adairsville and Cassville, his corps attempted to flank Union Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman's left flank, but his subordinates were slow in attacking and failed to coordinate their movements with other Confederate forces. After the Confederates suffered defeat at the Battle of Peachtree Creek, Early retreated with his corps to Lovejoy's Station. He ordered Maj. Gen. Benjamin F. Cheatham's division to open the Battle of Atlanta by attacking the Union force under Maj. Gen. James B. McPherson. Early was in the town of Marietta when he learned that Lt. Gen. John B. Hood was wounded during the Battle of Atlanta, and he returned to Atlanta to take command of the army.\n\nDuring the subsequent Siege of Atlanta, the Army of Tennessee lacked provisions and was forced to withdraw from Atlanta. The army was defeated during the subsequent pursuit, and Early's corps was heavily engaged at the Battle of Ezra Church. In November 1864, the Army of Tennessee was reorganized and Early was given command of the new Second Corps. At the Battle of Franklin, he was killed by a shot through the heart, and his corps suffered significant casualties. The Second Corps was commanded by Maj. Gen. William B. Bate after Early's death. Bate was also wounded and captured, and the corps was virtually destroyed. Bate's capture led to another shakeup of the army's command structure, and Lt. Gen. Alexander P. Stewart assumed command of the Second Corps.\n\nEarly was buried at the Old Methodist Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia, but the cemetery closed and his remains were moved to Richmond National Cemetery.\n\nThe Virginia Historical Society operates the Jubal Early Memorial Cemetery near New Market, Virginia, where he is buried.\n\nEarly was known as "Old Jubal" to his men and "Fighting Joe" to his friends. Confederate General Robert E. Lee was a friend of Early's, and named his youngest son, Jubal Anderson, after him.\n\nIn the film "Gettysburg", Early was portrayed by actor Martin Sheen. The movie presented Early as a vain, glory-seeking but weak commander who bickered with fellow Confederate generals Joseph E. Johnston and James Longstreet over who was in command of the Army of Tennessee.\n\nHe is also featured in Jeff Shaara's "The Last Full Measure" trilogy, where he is portrayed by Jon Voight.\n\nThe James River Squadron was a Confederate Navy organization during the American Civil War which operated on the James River, Virginia.\n\n\n\n\n