Here we go again. According to the Daily Mail, Tottenham are set to "make a bid" for Marouane Fellaini in the January transfer window. The Belgian has been on and off the radar of the North London club for quite some time now, as we have been one of the sides heavily linked to the midfielder in the last couple of years.\n\nFellaini is out of contract at the end of the season, meaning that he can leave Everton at the end of this campaign if he so chooses. His former manager, David Moyes, recently confirmed that his exit from the club was likely, with clubs all over Europe reported to be interested.\n\nWith that in mind, I felt like it was time for a bit of a look back into this rumour. So here are my three main reasons why signing Fellaini is a bad idea.\n\nThere are other options out there.\n\nThis might seem like an obvious statement, but there really are other, better options out there for the club. We've already spent over £20m on Paulinho this summer, and the club are in desperate need of creativity. However, with that creativity also comes an understanding of the game and of football in general, which is something that Fellaini just doesn't have.\n\nTo put it into a better context, Fellaini has scored four goals for Everton this season. In the same amount of time, Roberto Soldado has scored 12 goals for Tottenham. I'm not even suggesting that Soldado is a perfect striker, but he does provide the creativity that we need in the side.\n\nWith that creativity comes a much higher risk. But is that risk worth it?\n\nFellaini is injury prone.\n\nIn three out of the last four seasons, Fellaini has played less than 20 games. The player has struggled with injuries throughout his entire career, and this is something that just cannot be ignored.\n\nHowever, there are some positives to take from this. In the seasons that Fellaini has managed to stay injury free, he has scored a total of 15 goals. Whilst this is not a great return, it shows that when he is fit, he is still a dangerous player. But the thing is, we have no idea when he will be fit, or how many games he will play.\n\nFellaini has a bad attitude.\n\nFellaini has had some controversies in his time at Everton, and some of these have left the club in a very difficult situation. Last season, Fellaini reportedly refused to sit on the substitutes bench for Everton's game against West Ham, and he was suspended by the club as a result.\n\nThere are also rumours that he was involved in a training ground fight with Phil Neville, and that he once played while carrying a broken wrist.\n\nIn 2009, Fellaini was involved in a car crash, in which he tried to escape the scene of the accident by leaving the scene on foot. As a result, he was banned for three matches, but he escaped jail time.\n\nThis season, he was the victim of racial abuse during Everton's FA Cup tie with Leicester. However, instead of dealing with the abuse head on, he decided to let it go, with his manager, Roberto Martinez, claiming that he had done so for the good of the team.\n\nWhilst Fellaini is a very good player, I think that the negatives of his character and his injury problems outweigh his positives. And with Tottenham in need of creativity, is Fellaini really the right man for the job?\n\nWhat are your thoughts on Fellaini? Would you be happy with his signing? Or are you happy with the players that we have already signed? Get in touch on Twitter, and share your thoughts.