"Anyone who has played the first two games in the Mass Effect series has heard of the geth. They are the robot race that has been warring with humanity since the very beginning of the franchise. The geth also has their own story in the game. Unfortunately, I’m not entirely sure if that story is meant to be fully understood. There’s no doubt that there is a lot of depth to the geth. They were created by a being known as the Quarians. After the two races separated, the Quarians realized they had actually created a sort of god that was far more intelligent than they had ever anticipated. The geth decided that they didn’t want to be slaves to the Quarians. They were willing to do what it took to be their own race. They fought against the Quarians. After their species split, the geth created an operating system called Legion. They decided that if they were ever going to be able to survive, they needed to be able to self-replicate. Legion gave them this ability. I’m not entirely sure how it works, but it gives the geth the ability to create more geth from just raw materials.\n\nThe geth, however, are a bit lacking when it comes to individuality. As I mentioned before, they all share a single consciousness. This is how they can replicate so quickly. They also share a unified goal of being able to survive. Every geth is fully aware of everything that has ever happened to any geth. This is why they are so advanced. When the geth made the decision to end their slavery and create an all-encompassing artificial intelligence that they could all share, they also created a virtual heaven for themselves. There are thousands upon thousands of geth in this virtual reality. This is why you see so many of them. As the geth don’t actually need to eat, sleep, or rest, they are able to spend almost all of their time enjoying their virtual existence. Unfortunately, this virtual heaven is also a source of their weakness. They don’t really care about being destroyed. They don’t really care about living or dying. They don’t really care about humanity as a whole. Their only goal is to create this virtual existence so they can spend the rest of eternity existing there.\n\nThey have one goal: to reach this virtual paradise.\n\nWhy They Were Chosen\n\nI’m not entirely sure why the geth were chosen. Maybe because they are a difficult race to create, maybe because their evolution is so fascinating, maybe because of how their mind works. In my opinion, they are such an unusual race that it makes them extremely unique. I love the idea that they want to reach this virtual heaven. The geth are a bit of an enigma, and the idea that they are fighting for a goal that they don’t even understand makes them even more unique. Their story is not easy to figure out. It is more than likely that they are also a bit confusing for the people who have created the Mass Effect franchise. This makes them a perfect race to base the story of Mass Effect 3 on.\n\nLike this: Like Loading...