"SpaceX has been getting into the satellite-launching business. As CEO Elon Musk revealed, the company is planning to send its first operational satellites into space within the next couple of months.\n\nSpaceX already has two test satellites in orbit. The first is known as TinTin A and the second is TinTin B. The company has already tested the technology on these two devices, and will launch the first batch of satellites in a couple of months, and these will be in operation by the end of the year.\n\nAccording to The Verge, SpaceX has the go-ahead from the Federal Communications Commission to launch 4,425 satellites in low-Earth orbit. Musk explained that it would take seven launches of its Falcon 9 rocket to deploy all the satellites, and each launch would put up about 250 of them. Each satellite would weigh 250 pounds (110 kg), and SpaceX would use its Falcon 9 rocket for the launch.\n\nThe FCC has reportedly given SpaceX permission to launch more than 7,000 satellites in total, but the company will likely stop at 4,425 once the operational satellites are deployed.\n\nThe FCC already has approved another batch of satellites for SpaceX to launch. However, these will be in higher orbits, and the company will need special approvals from the International Telecommunications Union.\n\nSpaceX has already made arrangements with broadband Internet service providers to use its satellites once they are in orbit.\n\nThe company has said that its service will be “faster and cheaper” than other broadband options. Its service will be aimed at the U.S. at first, but it may eventually expand to other countries.\n\nSpaceX’s aim to bring high-speed broadband to more parts of the world will certainly be interesting to watch, but this may not be the only satellite-related announcement the company makes soon.\n\nAccording to reports, SpaceX is also planning to launch its Dragon 2 spacecraft to the International Space Station. This could happen as early as April 2019.\n\nThe Falcon 9’s launch will put a high-resolution imaging satellite, known as PAZ, into orbit. The spacecraft was built by the European aerospace and defense contractor, Airbus.\n\nThe company said that the launch will use the same rocket that will be used for the Falcon 9 carrying the Crew Dragon spacecraft to the ISS next month.\n\nWith the Falcon 9’s payload fairing, the spacecraft will be about 11 feet (3.3 meters) in diameter.