Suspension (mechanical)\n\nIn mechanical engineering, suspension refers to a system of shock absorbers and springs designed to improve the ride quality of a vehicle or other types of machinery. It is an essential component in wheeled vehicles, providing a convenient way to deal with irregularities in the road surface.\n\nMost modern vehicles are fitted with some sort of suspension. It is the primary means of isolating the passengers from the road, as well as absorbing the bumps and vibrations from the road.\n\nThe suspension system on a vehicle provides the following functions:\n\nThere are many systems available that provide all or most of these functions, but most can be categorized by their design and motion characteristics.\n\nThe simplest suspension systems are rigid, and often called "hard suspensions", because they don't use any fluid damping. Instead, they rely entirely on the elasticity of the metal or the springiness of the suspension elements to soak up the bumps. Some early vehicles used torsion springs as suspension, but modern systems almost all use either coil or leaf springs, or shock absorbers.\n\nThe first and simplest suspension system was used by the French inventor of the wheel, Leonardo da Vinci. It consisted of four flexible limbs connected to the carriage. These limbs served as both the suspension and steering system.\n\nIn addition, Leonardo designed a system that included advanced features such as brake linings, bearings and a double-action brake system. A suspension system for cars was introduced by M. Thon in France in 1898. It consisted of a network of rubber bands that took the place of conventional springs. The rubber bands were enclosed in a conventional coil-spring housing. An advantage of this system was its light weight. Thon's design was introduced to the United States by John M. Curtis in 1904.\n\nBy the 1920s, many independent suspension manufacturers were using the pneumatic springing system as the basis of their systems, as well as using rubber or steel cords for springing. The principal disadvantage of the pneumatic system is that the spring-pressure increases with the compression of the suspension. In addition, a system that is not correctly adjusted will not ride well.\n\nThe third kind of suspension system was developed by the Morgan Motor Company, based in the UK. In this system, the spring is attached to the frame, and the shock absorbers are attached to a special hub, which attaches to the front and rear axles. This system is still sometimes seen in modern cars, since it is less expensive than the other systems and in most cases provides an adequate ride. This system has not been popular in Europe and North America since the 1930s.\n\nThe most common suspension system in modern cars, used in everything from Ford Model Ts to the Chevrolet Corvette, is the "independent front suspension", or "live axle". In this system, the suspension is a more or less conventional system of springs and shock absorbers, with the additional feature of a locating link (the king pin in an axle-based suspension). This allows the axle to move up and down relative to the chassis. The locating link ends are attached to the car body, which provides the rolling element to the system.\n\nThe other feature of this system is the axle, which provides the pivoting element of the suspension system. The wheel hub is attached to the ends of the axle, and the wheel itself is attached to the hub. The spring system, located in the body of the vehicle, is attached to the axle via the locating link. The body of the car, therefore, provides the "pivot" of the suspension.\n\nA number of variations on this design have been used, most notably independent rear suspension, in which the rear wheels are located by a trailing arm (a form of wishbone) instead of the traditional transverse leaf spring. Another design commonly found on trucks is the "live rear axle". In this system, the axle is located by an arm from the leaf spring. The rear wheels can move up and down relative to the chassis without any location from the body.\n\nA design commonly used on many racing cars and on some passenger cars is the DeDion or De Dion suspension, named after its inventors, the De Dion brothers. In this system, the two wheels are located by a triangular or "semi-trapezoidal" bar. The pivot is provided by a bearing block mounted to the car body, while the pivoting point for the wheels is a ball joint on the axle.\n\nThe DeDion design is an expensive design, due to the cost of the wheels, brakes and other parts. However, it does provide excellent wheel location, as the wheels can be moved by several inches in any direction without affecting the steering.\n\nRacing cars generally use the DeDion system, as the location of the wheels is the primary function of the suspension system. However, it is also used on a number of sports cars, including the Jaguar XK120, the Maserati 3500 GT and the Lamborghini Gallardo.\n\nOne of the main disadvantages of the DeDion suspension is that the front wheels are not located directly above the chassis, and there is significant scrub radius. For example, a wheelbase of 86 inches (218 cm) on a vehicle with a wheel diameter of 18 inches (46 cm) would produce a scrub radius of around 8 inches (20 cm). This can cause the car to steer and corner differently depending on the tire wear, since the scrub radius is at its largest when the tires are new.\n\nWhile an advantage of the DeDion system is that it is lighter than a comparable design, this is not a major consideration for racing cars. However, since racing cars are generally not driven at high speeds for long distances, the "chassis bounce" caused by the scrub radius is not an issue.\n\nOne of the first types of suspension system was introduced by Earle Crooker and was called "Independent Coil Spring Suspension". It was a brand name that existed only in the late 1920s. The name was used by C. G. Ames Co.\n\nIn this system, the springs are attached directly to the frame. In this system, the wheel is attached to the axle, which is supported by a bearing attached to the frame, not the car body.\n\nThe primary advantage of this system is the ease with which the wheelbase can be changed. In most cars, the wheels are located by a link that is attached to the axle and the frame, and the wheels can move relative to the car body. In this system, there is a much smaller length change, as the wheels move up and down relative to the axle.\n\nThe disadvantage of this system is that the body is no longer a "pivot point" for the suspension. The body is now part of the suspension system. This makes it very difficult to change the camber of the wheels (i.e., the angle of the wheel relative to the car body). In addition, the wheel can only move in one plane, as the upper control arm and the lower control arm limit the movement of the wheel. The car may need to be aligned more often, as the geometry of the suspension can change more than a suspension system where the wheels move relative to the body.\n\nThis system is commonly found on American cars built in the 1940s and 1950s, such as the Nash Ambassador, Hudson, and other brands. It is less commonly found on European cars, although it was used on some Mercedes-Benz models"