United States Army Transportation Corps\n\nThe United States Army Transportation Corps was established in the early twentieth century as a separate bureau in the Department of War. The Transportation Corps was an early application of doctrine developed by the French military officer, Napoleon Bonaparte. That doctrine held that an army’s command and control capabilities should not be limited by the number of soldiers in an army’s ranks. That doctrine held that the head of a nation’s armed forces should have control of the nation’s waterways and that same person should also command the nation’s land forces.\n\nThe transportation needs of the nation’s Army during the first quarter of the 20th century were administered by a variety of bureaus within the War Department, which had total control over the nation’s railroads and inland waterways. That situation was not an efficient use of the nation’s transportation resources. In addition, the use of multiple commands often resulted in transportation-related problems. In 1900 Congress created the Water Transportation Branch of the Army Quartermaster Corps, which began operation on April 1, 1901. The branch was under the direct control of the Quartermaster General. On May 27, 1903, the Army Appropriations Act authorized the War Department to transfer to the new Water Transportation Service all transportation officers, boats, property, records, and funds that had been assigned to the Quartermaster’s department. In 1908 the Water Transportation Service was renamed the Army Transportation Service. In 1913 the Transportation Corps came under the supervision of the Chief of Engineers.\n\nThe transportation branch remained in the Department of War until the establishment of the Transportation Division in the Office of the Chief of Staff on March 11, 1918. On June 5, 1918, Congress passed an act to "Provide for the more efficient organization and administration of the Army, National Army". In paragraph 46 of that act, Congress recognized the value of transportation and stated, "The transportation service for the national army shall be in the charge of the Chief of Transportation, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of War. The Chief of Transportation shall have direct charge of all transportation service in the national army, including railroads, inland waterways, and watercraft, and all their equipment."\n\nOn July 9, 1918, Congress created a Water Division in the Office of the Chief of Staff and then on July 29, 1918, transferred all of the Army’s water craft and equipment to the new division. On August 2, 1918, Congress authorized the Secretary of War to create a separate Transportation Corps. On August 5, 1918, the War Department General Order No. 142 established the Transportation Corps and assigned duties and responsibilities.\n\nThe Transportation Corps was established to coordinate the transportation needs of the nation’s Army during wartime. Its mission was to facilitate the movement of personnel and materiel, as well as to maintain the health of the nation’s highways, railroads, waterways, and coastal waterways.\n\nThe Transportation Corps was constituted in 1920, and three years later, in 1923, the Transportation Corps was granted relative rank, and, in 1939, the Transportation Corps was granted combatant status.\n\nThe Transportation Corps was authorized the branch insignia on July 5, 1941, and the distinctive branch insignia in 1959.\n\nIn November, 2008, the US Army Transportation Museum at Fort Eustis, VA hosted an exhibit titled, "The Transportation Corps: Moving the Force" which showcased the corps' history from its creation in the Revolutionary War through to its transformation after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.\n\nOn 23 December 2008, the American Society of Military Insignia Collectors held its inaugural meeting at the US Army Transportation Museum.\n\nThe Chief of Transportation in the United States Army is a position that was created by an act of Congress on 11 June 1918, to oversee the Army's transportation needs. The Chief of Transportation is responsible for policy, plans, programming, budgets and statistics, procurement, maintenance, leasing, transportation readiness, safety, and security. The current Chief of Transportation is Brigadier General Jeffrey W. Drushal.\n\nThe Chief of Transportation has held a variety of commands and duties. During World War II, the position was known as the Deputy Chief of Transportation, and the office holder was designated as Deputy Chief of Transportation, Office of the Chief of Transportation. During the war, the Deputy Chief was responsible for the Army's rail, water, air, and motor transportation. Following the war, the Army Transportation Corps was reorganized and the Deputy Chief of Transportation was removed from command of the corps. Instead, the Deputy Chief served as the executive officer to the Chief of Transportation.\n\nThe position of Deputy Chief of Transportation was revived in 1950. The Deputy Chief served as the executive assistant to the Chief of Transportation. The Deputy Chief exercised supervision over three separate offices; the Office of Chief of Transportation, the Office of Transportation and the Office of Logistics Support. The Deputy Chief also supervised the Transportation Center at Alabama's Fort McClellan and the Transportation School at Mississippi's Fort Eustis. In 1952, the Deputy Chief was made a member of the Transportation Board. In 1965, the Transportation Board was abolished and its functions were transferred to the Army's Office of the Chief of Transportation. The position of Deputy Chief of Transportation was again abolished.\n\nThe Deputy Chief of Transportation was reinstated in 1989 as a three-star general officer position, reporting to the Army's Vice Chief of Staff. In this position, the Deputy Chief of Transportation was responsible for all transportation matters, and was the executive agent for all Department of Defense transportation matters.\n\nIn 1997, the Deputy Chief of Transportation was moved from reporting to the Army Vice Chief of Staff to reporting to the Army's Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics.\n\nOn 4 March 2005, the Deputy Chief of Transportation was moved again, this time reporting to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, G-4.\n\nOn 12 December 2008, the Deputy Chief of Transportation was again moved, this time reporting to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, G-4.\n\nOn 19 June 2012, the Deputy Chief of Transportation was moved to reporting to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, G-4.\n\nOn 19 December 2012, the Deputy Chief of Transportation was again moved, this time to reporting to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, G-4.\n\nThe following are the Army transportation and logistics leaders:\n\n\nThe Office of the Chief of Transportation oversees a wide variety of Army transportation-related matters, including: \n\n\nThe Office of Transportation is responsible for the Army's domestic waterborne transportation activities and overseas land transportation. The Director of Transportation is the primary adviser to the Chief of Transportation on transportation-related matters.\n\n\nThe Office of Transportation maintains the Army’s watercraft and land transportation equipment inventories. The director of this office serves as the Army's watercraft engineer.\n\n\nThe Army's Headquarters, Transportation Corps manages all water transportation programs and activities.\n\n\nThe following is a list of Army Transportation Corps personnel who have risen to the rank of general officer:\n\n\nThe Army's Office of the Chief of Transportation manages a variety of resources and provides a variety of services. The office administers the Army's domestic water transportation program and overseas land transportation programs and services. It also develops transportation policy, programs, and budgets. The office is responsible for the Army's rail, water, air, and highway transportation systems, which support both the warfighter and the logistician. It provides support for various military organizations that use the Army's transportation system, such as Army Corps of Engineers, the Military Traffic Management Command, the Defense Traffic Management Command, the Department of Defense Seaport System, the Defense Supply Center, and the Department of Defense Transportation Services.\n\nThe office is also responsible for managing the development of Army transportation policy, programs, and budgets, and for overseeing Army watercraft and land transportation equipment inventories. The office also provides transportation readiness support, transportation readiness, training, transportation and logistics support for Army Forces Command, U.S. Army, Pacific and U.S. Army, Europe, and transportation readiness support and training to other Army organizations worldwide.\n\nThe Army’s Chief of Transportation is the Army's single focal point for water and land transportation. In this capacity, the Chief of Transportation serves as executive agent for all Army Department of Defense water transportation matters. The Chief also serves as executive agent for all Army land transportation matters.\n\nArmy watercraft are managed by the director of the Army's Office of Transportation. This director is responsible for coordinating Army watercraft activities and for managing the development of Army watercraft policy, programs, and budgets. The director also oversees the maintenance of Army watercraft, and is the Army’s watercraft engineer.\n\nArmy land transportation is managed by the Army’s Deputy Chief of Transportation, who reports directly to the Chief of Transportation. The Deputy Chief of Transportation is responsible for overseeing the development of Army land transportation policy, programs, and budgets. The Deputy Chief of Transportation also manages the Army’s land transportation readiness, training, and equipment support programs, and is responsible for the transportation and logistics support of the Army Forces Command, U.S. Army, Pacific, and U.S. Army, Europe.\n\nThe Deputy Chief of Transportation also serves as the executive agent for all Army Department of Defense land transportation matters.\n\nThe Army’s Transportation Center provides training in the various aspects of Army transportation for the Army’s senior leaders and key personnel. The training is designed to provide the transportation-related skills required for senior leaders and key personnel to effectively manage the Army’s transportation and logistics capabilities.\n\nThe Transportation Center provides training in the following areas:\n\nThe Transportation Center’s training was first approved in 1977. The Transportation Center provides training for the Army’s senior leaders and key personnel. The training is designed to provide the transportation-