In two years, after graduating with a master's in fine arts, he would do what he was paid to do: act in a studio's movies.\n\nBut then in the late 1960's, "you couldn't see any kind of independent films," he said. "We had two major studios, MGM and RKO. The independents didn't get a chance."\n\nSo he decided to make one of his own. After asking students at the graduate film program of the New York University Film School for help, he gathered friends and shot his first film, "Mr. Mom," about a laid-off advertising executive who becomes a housewife, in 1970.\n\nThe low-budget, independent film, directed by a woman and starring a cast of talented newcomers, was ahead of its time. Many viewers laughed, he said, at the notion of a housewife as a career woman. Others did not understand the film's subtle humor.\n\nPhoto\n\n"The primary thing people didn't understand was it wasn't supposed to be funny," he said. "It was dramatic."\n\nThe film cost $25,000, and he sold it to Warner Brothers for $50,000. "We got drunk for two weeks," he said. "It was our first film. We were elated."\n\nHe went on to make six more films as a director and actor. But the money he made was eaten up by the next movie, as well as his divorce, children and a country house in New Hampshire, he said.\n\nNewsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.\n\nThen he met Nancy Chase, a writer and former actress who would become his second wife. She had grown up in a suburb of New York City and attended St. Agnes School in the city's West Village and a private high school.\n\nAdvertisement Continue reading the main story\n\nMs. Chase knew nothing about film, he said. But she was interested in Mr. Moore's films, especially "Slackness," which came out in 1981. She asked if he would like to work on a screenplay she was writing. He agreed.\n\n"I thought this was a possibility to get out of the mess I was in," he said. "It was a partnership. I had a chance to work on a screenplay with her. And she had a chance to write something. And then we got married."\n\nThey met in 1983. A year later they married and went on to make several more films.\n\nMr. Moore said that he and Ms. Chase had a very "civilized" divorce after 23 years. "We've been married long enough that we have two children who are married, who are professionals," he said. "They're both people who are not into the entertainment business. So they're good children."\n\nMr. Moore also has two other children. He did not see his first wife, Kay, and their children after they divorced in 1973.\n\n"I didn't find it productive to go back into my son's life," he said. "I didn't want to be a hero and make up. I didn't want to see him have a second set of delusions about me. I've always believed that children should be given credit for being capable of determining who their parents are. I didn't want to be a subject of people's emotions."\n\nHe recently remarried, and now lives with his wife, Eileen Minnelli, in a three-story, six-bedroom house that sits behind a wrought-iron gate on a leafy residential street in Mill Valley, Calif.\n\nA self-described "indiscriminate reader," Mr. Moore spends much of his time writing short stories and screenplays. And he has plans for at least two more films. One is about a woman who was institutionalized in the 1960's, after becoming pregnant. The other is about the son of an interracial couple who is raised by his mother's relatives and becomes a neo-Nazi.\n\n"I have a lot of things to say, and I don't have a problem saying them," he said. "I haven't changed my approach to making films at all."