"What I'd really like to know is this: How come you're able to read articles from unknown websites, that are part of large organizations that write articles, yet I can't? I guess the first thing you could do is ask yourself: Is it really something worth arguing about? You see, every single school or system has done that at some point.\n\nWhile we're looking at some of the local sex offenders in Maine, why don't you read up on the state's Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act? It's been a law since 1992, and it requires sex offenders to register with local law enforcement.\n\nWe know that I'm clearly not a cheerleader. It makes no sense to cheer for a particular team. Once I had actually considered it. For example, I'm from New York.\n\nThat's it, though. The police. This gives me the opportunity to explore a new city and see what there is to do.\n\nThey are responsible for maintaining a list of registered sex offenders and displaying it in a conspicuous location. So, yes, it is fair to say that I hate it when they do that. As we're talking about new local news articles and breaking news, why don't you consider looking at what they have on their site? It's not fair, and it's also very prejudiced. You know, I like to be proud of who I am.\n\nI'm not even going to start talking about my job. I live in a small town. Not a whole lot.\n\nWhile I was trying to figure out if this was okay or not, I realized something: I was actually on my phone while driving. I try to find a balance between work and home life, and also stay active on the weekends. I could only stand it for so long, though. My mother used to tell me I'm too nice for my own good.\n\nAs much as I hate going to court, I know it's part of the job. Well, he told me he wouldn't wear it. Now, as we look at what the New York Times has to offer us, why don't you take a look at their Breaking News? Some of my family and friends might be surprised to hear this, but I don't spend that much time on social media.\n\nI guess the first thing you could do is ask yourself: Is it really something worth arguing about? I'm not even going to start talking about my job.