| Feeds The latest issue of WWE Magazine is now online. WWE Magazine returns this week with a special feature on The Rock, his life on the road, and how he manages to balance it all. This issue also features a special tour of Paul Heyman’s home, his office, and everything in between, and a countdown of the most brutal action figures ever. For more details, click here.\n\nInnovative Elimination Chamber Plans Posted by: Eve at 03:00 AM\n\n\n\n\n\nFollow WWF News | WENN | Sports Illustrated WWE.com announced the first match in the history of the Elimination Chamber will take place at No Way Out on February 17th. Four of SmackDown’s top stars will participate in the first ever match for the Elimination Chamber. Kurt Angle, Chris Benoit, Edge, and Eddie Guerrero will compete for the right to face Triple H for the WWE Championship at Wrestlemania. The first ever Elimination Chamber will take place inside the Raw set. The Elimination Chamber consists of six chain-linked pods that will enclose each of the Superstars. The structure is approximately 60 feet high, 35 feet wide and weighs about 15,000 pounds. The pods are three feet wide and six feet tall and are composed of steel. The pods will be locked in the ringside area of the Raw set by two large hydraulic cams. Each pod contains a television monitor that will allow the Superstars to monitor what is happening in the match. The pods will be illuminated to allow fans at home to see the action inside. The pods will also be accessible by large trap doors which will be controlled by a floor director, ensuring that when they are opened, the Superstars inside the pods will not be tipped over. The Elimination Chamber was designed by WWE.com editor R.D. Reynolds and a team of engineers. The concept was first suggested to WWE by R.D. Reynolds in December, 2001. “We were sitting in the WWE.com war room discussing ideas for No Way Out,” says Reynolds. “I knew the Elimination Chamber match was a very real possibility, and I suggested to Vince McMahon that we do something to make it stand out. Vince thought the idea was great, and here we are.” “What was great about the opportunity,” says Reynold, “is that we were not just asked to build something. We were given the freedom to really create a unique environment that could provide for the best viewing experience for our fans. I knew what the WWE was looking for, so the team worked very closely to create a structure that would support the weight of the pods, the Superstars, and the hydraulics while allowing them to easily get out of the pods and to safety.” “We want this Elimination Chamber to be the best the WWE has ever put on,” says WWE Production Coordinator Andy Shepard. “And we are confident that we will accomplish this with the design we have put together. We have tested the pods, and the ability to raise and lower them into the ring. There will be no problem with getting the Superstars in and out of the pods. It’s an amazing and innovative design.” The pods will be constructed in the Raw set by R.D. Reynolds and the WWE.com Engineering team. The pods will be lifted from the ringside area of the set to the ceiling, where the ringside crew will place them into the chains. “The pods are surprisingly light,” says Reynolds. “It’s a lot of work for one man to lift them, but with six men, it is very possible. And the ringside crew will not have any problem.” “When the pods are dropped,” says Shepard, “they will remain exactly where we want them to. It’s not like they will fall from the ceiling. They will be perfectly placed to complete the structure.” The Elimination Chamber will be a steel structure approximately 15 feet high. “The pods and the chamber will be constructed of steel,” says R.D. Reynolds, “which makes it even more amazing that the Superstars will be able to lift it from the ringside area of the set to the ceiling. It is no easy feat.” “It’s not just the weight of the pods and structure that makes it difficult,” says Shepard. “We also have to consider the ceiling of the Raw set. It is about 20 feet from the floor to the ceiling. So, the Superstars will not be able to simply walk the pods to the ceiling. There will be a few creative ways to get the pods up there.” WWE Production Coordinator Andy Shepard has worked with the company since 1992. He has worked on the crew for several pay-per-views and TV shows, including ECW and SmackDown. “This is going to be an exciting match,” says Shepard. “It will be something completely different from what the WWE Universe has ever seen. The fans at home and in the arena are going to be blown away. I know that is the goal of the WWE and everyone on the crew. We are all very excited about the opportunity to create something that no one else has ever seen before"