Boswellia\n\nBoswellia is a genus of trees in the frankincense (also known as olibanum or gum olibanum) subfamily of the family Burseraceae. The genus comprises five species, four native to Africa, and one native to India. The Frankincense tree (also known as the Olibanum tree) is a common depiction in ancient Middle Eastern civilizations, and is today named for the medieval merchant Frankincense traders. The gum resin it produces was popular as a resin in the ancient world, and is still used as incense and perfume. "Boswellia" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including the common swift.\n\n"Boswellia" species grow into large trees, reaching tall. Their leaves are pinnate, long. The flowers are small, greenish-white, and arranged in dense clusters. The fruits are roughly spherical, and long. All species of "Boswellia" bear a gum resin, or oleo-gum-resin, that is golden in colour. This resin is the raw material from which the ancient Egyptians carved their prized "Boswellia sacra" incense, and which has been traded and used for centuries.\n\nThe Boswellia species are divided into four sections:\n\nIn addition, "B. frereana" is sometimes also placed in "Boswellia", and "B. papyrifera" is a sister to all other "Boswellia" species.\n\nThe gum resin of "B. sacra" has been used as incense in Ancient Egypt and the Near East for thousands of years. It is burned as an incense in Arab and Indian prayer ceremonies, and is used in the purification rites of Ethiopian Orthodox Christians. It is used to treat leprosy in Ethiopian folk medicine, and has been used as an incense in Somalia and the Malay Peninsula.\n\nThe name frankincense (commonly used to refer to "B. sacra") comes from Old French "franc encens", meaning "pure incense". In turn, that may come from Latin "francus", meaning "pure" or "freeborn".\n\n"Boswellia sacra" is a tree that grows up to 20 m tall with thick, yellowish to pale brown bark. "Boswellia sacra" is primarily native to northeastern Africa, growing in Somalia, eastern Sudan, Djibouti, northern Eritrea, eastern Ethiopia, and eastern and southern Kenya. It is also thought to be native in southern Arabia. Its presence in Socotra, an island off the coast of Yemen, is uncertain.\n\n"Boswellia papyrifera" grows in Somalia, southern Arabia, and India, as well as eastward to Pakistan. It is also known as the "Indian olibanum tree". It is thought to be the largest producer of olibanum resin in the world, with typical trees producing 30 to 40 kg per year. It is closely related to "Boswellia serrata" and "Boswellia carteri".\n\n"Boswellia serrata" is an evergreen tree native to India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and possibly Nepal. It grows up to 20 m tall, with a crown of large, spreading branches. Its leaves are pinnate, long, with 20 to 25 pairs of leaflets, each up to long. The flowers are greenish-white, arranged in dense inflorescences. The fruits are spherical, and long. It is closely related to "B. papyrifera".\n\n"Boswellia carteri" is an evergreen tree native to the Arabian Peninsula, the Horn of Africa, and Socotra. It grows up to 20 m tall, with a crown of large, spreading branches. Its leaves are pinnate, long, with 20 to 25 pairs of leaflets, each up to long. The flowers are greenish-white, arranged in dense inflorescences. The fruits are spherical, and long. It is closely related to "B. papyrifera".\n\n"Boswellia frereana" is an evergreen tree native to Somalia. It grows up to 15 m tall, with a crown of large, spreading branches. Its leaves are pinnate, long, with 20 to 25 pairs of leaflets, each up to long. The flowers are greenish-white, arranged in dense inflorescences. The fruits are spherical, and long.\n\n"Boswellia" resin has been found in the eastern Mediterranean region dating back to the Neolithic age.\n\nFrankincense is mentioned in the Old Testament of the Bible, which states that the Israelites were using it in the Temple as early as the 15th century BCE.\n\nIn the Second Book of Kings (), the prophet Elijah challenges the priests of Baal to demonstrate their worship. They place an offering on a shrine, and invoke the name of Baal from morning to noon, but there is no response. At noon Elijah begins to taunt them, and "they have sacrificed to the noise of the harpists and to the noise of the trumpeters". When Elijah has finished speaking, "the Lord answered him", a great wind comes up, and Elijah's mantle, a part of his prophetic outfit, is torn into twelve pieces. He sends a message to his servant saying, "Go up and look towards the sea", and "behold, there came a cloud and wind, and parted the two, and there was a great and strong wind, that divided the sea, and blew down the wall, and it fell".\n\nThe first thing he then tells his servant to do is to "gather together" twelve large stones and then set up an altar of cut stone. The altar is used to sacrifice the bullock and the ram that were offered by King Ahab to replace the divine response that Elijah had just defeated. Elijah then pours water over the offering, and the sacrifice is pleasing to God, but the water also finds its way into the jar of oil kept at the temple. At that point, the story jumps to what happens next. The passage continues, stating that the next morning, the priests of Baal say that they will offer their sacrifices on the rising of the sun, but Elijah replies that they should pray first and test God. The altar is destroyed, and Elijah gathers the people to him, praying that rain will come.\n\nThen he sets out once more, but his departure is delayed by an encounter with a company of prophets of the Ba'al, and then a great and heavy rain, as he walks up the hill. The story is usually taken to symbolize the victory of monotheism over paganism, with the prayers of Elijah being the turning point.\n\nArchaeologists have found much evidence of the use of "Boswellia sacra" resin in ancient Egypt, dating back to as early as the Second Dynasty. In a tomb in Saqqara, a cylinder seal from the late Fourth Dynasty shows a sacral tree. The ancient Egyptians used the resin of the tree to create a resin cement, and combined it with plaster to make their ready-mixed plaster for walls and papyri. They used it as an ingredient in incense, and as a fragrance. In the Amduat, the god Osiris is said to "make fragrant the per-nu" (the house of the night), and the Book of the Dead refers to the "trees of frankincense" more than 40 times. In the tomb of Ramesses II, he is shown "walking in the midst of the trees of frankincense". At the Temple of Amun in Karnak, there were six "trees of frankincense", three on either side of the entrance. A wall in the Temple of Hathor at Dendera depicts men gathering the sap of the trees.\n\nThe Assyrians used frankincense in their temples, believing that it would give them the divine wisdom they craved. In the Epic of Gilgamesh, the tears of the great king are used to make a libation. In ancient China, people used incense made from frankincense in their ceremonies.\n\nAmong the Parthians, the odor of frankincense was a sign of mourning, and they would burn it at funerals. In ancient Greece, the words for "frankincense" and "purity" were the same: "eleos". Plutarch stated that the best frankincense came from Asia Minor, and was taken from a tree that could be found there. The Phoenicians would spread the word of the best sources of frankincense, and it was exported to the rest of the Mediterranean from there. The Greek botanist Theophrastus states that frankincense comes from Arabia, and it is one of the earliest Arabian products to be mentioned in Europe. Dioscorides described several species, and stated that their resin was produced on the Arabian peninsula.\n\nDuring the Roman Empire, there were several notable incense routes. The trade in frankincense and myrrh accounted for a large part of Roman trade. The route ran from the eastern end of the Mediterranean sea to Gaza, then across the Sinai to Berenice, then across the desert to Leptis Magna, Tripolis, and Lixus, then finally to the west coast of Morocco, where the Berbers still hold the tradition of burning frankincense to honor the dead.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian word for frankincense was "sheneb", which was part of an elaborate terminology used by ancient Egyptian priests to describe the various ingredients in incense.\n\nA wide range of substances were used for inc