Former Longmeadow Mayor Daniel R. Rossetti has endorsed State Sen. Eric Lesser for Congress, Lesser's campaign announced Tuesday.\n\nRossetti, who served as mayor for nine years until leaving the position in 2015, endorsed Lesser because of the senator's commitment to community service, campaign officials said in a press release.\n\n"When I needed the right person to get the right results, I called on Eric," Rossetti said in the release. "Whether he was helping me sell my house, help my daughter find a home to buy or get my elderly parents’ apartment up to code, Eric was always there, he was always available and he was always getting results. As a small business owner, a community leader and a father, I knew I could count on Eric. Now that he's running for Congress, I know that others can too."\n\nLesser also has the endorsement of former Boston Mayor Tom Menino.\n\nLesser, a Democrat from Longmeadow, is running for the 4th Congressional District seat, which is currently held by Rep. Richard E. Neal, D-Springfield. Neal is one of the wealthiest members of Congress, according to Roll Call.\n\nRep. Joe Kennedy, D-Brookline, has announced his intention to run for the U.S. Senate seat now held by Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Massachusetts. Warren has not said whether she intends to run for re-election or for another position.\n\nLesser announced his candidacy in April. He is running for office to represent the 4th Congressional District and "ensure that our economic future is rooted in Longmeadow, Springfield and beyond," he said.\n\nIn 2014, Lesser served as field director for U.S. Sen. Ed Markey, D-Massachusetts, when Markey won a special election to the Senate. Lesser also worked for Markey from 2009 to 2011.\n\nMassachusetts' 4th Congressional District includes all or parts of Boston, Brookline, Cambridge, Chelsea, Everett, Framingham, Lowell, Lynn, Malden, Medford, Melrose, Milton, Natick, Newton, Reading, Revere, Somerville, Stoneham, Waltham, Watertown, Wellesley, Winchester, Woburn and Worcester.