Preventing market failure is not an easy task, and for blockchain projects it may be even harder to protect investors from making poor decisions. I will try to explain why that is, and to provide a working definition of the problem. I will also try to explain how this problem is very similar to the one that was faced by corporate finance theory, and how that helped to improve the legal framework for corporations.\n\nSo what is market failure and why is it so hard to protect investors from making poor decisions in the ICO market?\n\nIn a recent interview, an experienced angel investor explained the reason why he decided to use this particular description for projects which he deemed as a bad investment. He said that it wasn’t the usual risk analysis that led to the decision not to invest. He went on to explain that this was “a moral issue”.\n\n“I don’t believe in theft. Stealing from a thief is not right”.\n\nLet me explain. If a project has no product and is not able to deliver on the promises in the white paper, then those who invest their hard earned money deserve a refund. But that is not going to happen.\n\nWhy not?\n\nBecause the ICO market is not really a market, but a pseudo-market. In a market there are real assets that are exchanged, and there is a free market for those assets. A company listed on the stock exchange is a company that is managed by professional managers and by professional advisors. The CEO of a company listed on the stock exchange is a CEO that is paid a salary to maximize the value of the company and its shareholders.\n\nThat is not the case for a project that conducts an ICO. It is often run by people who know very little about the business that they are going to enter. It is very often a one-man project, or at best a project with few employees.\n\nIn a true market, it is up to the buyer to do the necessary due diligence, but the buyer has a vested interest in doing it correctly, otherwise he may loose his money. If the buyer does not know what he is doing, he should not be able to buy a property or invest in a company, or at least not without having a large deposit (in the case of a property) or a lot of money (in the case of a company).\n\nIn the case of an ICO, there is often no real due diligence done. It is very often the case that projects which conduct an ICO are very good at marketing and writing a whitepaper, but they have no clue how to build a business, nor how to write software.\n\nThis is one of the reason why the total market capitalization of all crypto-currencies is less than 100 billion USD (on March 12, 2017), while the total market capitalization of all the companies listed on the stock exchange is more than 500 billion USD.\n\nWhen there is a market failure, it is not the buyer that suffers, but the seller. This is exactly what happened in the subprime crisis, when banks had no incentive to screen their clients because they knew that they were going to loose them soon anyway.\n\nNow what happens when we combine the pseudo-market for ICOs with the structure of a limited liability company?\n\nAs we all know, when we buy a share in a company, we don’t buy the assets of the company, we only buy the right to vote on what the company is going to do with those assets.\n\nIf the company wants to do something that the shareholders do not like, the shareholders are not entitled to force the company to do something against its will, unless the company’s constitution states otherwise.\n\nIn the case of an ICO, there is no such thing as a real share. It is just an IOU. But if a project wants to raise $50 million from the public, then it must create a company, and create 50 million IOUs against its assets.\n\nSo in a true market, the project will be punished for taking the money and doing something different with it, but in a pseudo-market there is no such punishment.\n\nThe consequence of that is that projects which can raise $50 million on a promise to do something have absolutely no incentive to deliver. It doesn’t matter whether the project has any value or not, since it has the $50 million anyway.\n\nThis problem is very similar to the one that is faced by corporate finance. How do we incentivize the CEO of a corporation to act in the best interests of the shareholders?\n\nIf the CEO has a salary and can be fired, he may do what is best for him, not what is best for the shareholders.\n\nCorporate finance theory explains that in order to properly incentivize the CEO, a corporation must create the right kind of incentive scheme and this must be properly aligned with the interests of the shareholders.\n\nWhen we analyze an ICO, we need to analyze the incentive scheme that will be created. If the project has"