KFVE\n\nKFVE, virtual channel 5 (UHF digital channel 20), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station licensed to Honolulu, Hawaii, United States. The station is owned by Morgan Murphy Media. KFVE's studios are located on Bishop Street in downtown Honolulu, and its transmitter is located near Akupu. The station's signal is relayed on satellite station KFVE-DT2 (virtual and UHF digital channel 20.2) in Hilo on the island of Hawaii; KFVE-DT2 serves as a full simulcast of the Honolulu station, and does not carry any additional syndicated programming on its own.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on August 12, 1988 as KHHH-TV. It was the first television station in Hawaii to be owned by an Asian American. During its first few years on the air, the station was a UPN affiliate. KHHH was a general entertainment independent station until 1995, when it became a charter affiliate of The WB. In 1997, KHHH became an affiliate of UPN; however, it was largely programmed as a WB affiliate because of the area's cable providers at the time, Oceanic Time Warner Cable and Hawaiian Telcom, were only able to offer the network's prime time programming.\n\nIn 1999, KHHH entered into a local marketing agreement with the Home Shopping Network and became a secondary affiliate of the network. After KITV (channel 4) launched its second digital subchannel to become an affiliate of This TV, KFVE discontinued its LMA with the HSN in favor of affiliating with that network's parent network, Movies! (now Pop), which launched on January 1, 2011.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new "fifth" network called The CW. KHHH, which was expected to become the market's CW affiliate, instead signed an affiliation agreement with MyNetworkTV on September 13, 2006. KHHH changed its call letters to KFVE on October 18, 2006 to reflect its pending network switch. KFVE became a MyNetworkTV affiliate when that network launched on September 5, and adopted its current branding and logo on September 17.\n\nKFVE launched a second digital subchannel on January 1, 2011, to serve as a charter affiliate of Movies!, a network owned by Morgan Murphy Media that is also affiliated with Fox Television Stations' MyNetworkTV-affiliated stations through a time brokerage agreement. On April 1, 2013, the Movies! affiliation moved to the main channel, and KFVE-DT2 became a standard high-definition feed of KFVE. KFVE's main channel was also upgraded to high definition, becoming the first and only MyNetworkTV affiliate in Hawaii to broadcast in HD.\n\nOn January 24, 2014, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down Movies! and merge it with the Laff digital subchannel network as Pop, which would be an exclusively network-owned joint venture rather than a time brokerage agreement. Pop is available in HD on KFVE-DT3. The station's digital channel is multiplexed:\n!Channel number\n!Programming\n!Station\n!Notes\n\nKFVE discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 5, on January 15, 2009, the date in which full-power television stations in Hawaii transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts (five months earlier than the June 12 transition date for stations on the U.S. mainland). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 20. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 5.\n\n