"This popular loop hike is rated difficult.\n\nOn the east side of the Laguna Mountains lies the 10,000-acre Cleveland National Forest. Once the private property of the Santa Fe Railway Company, it is now a favorite escape for thousands of visitors each year. Bordered by the Pacific Ocean, the City of San Diego and the San Diego River, it is rich in history.\n\nMore than 6,000 acres are designated wilderness in the Laguna Mountain Wilderness area, the largest wilderness in San Diego County. This area offers solitude in a rare, almost pristine environment of mountains and canyons. The area has two campgrounds, with a total of 34 campsites, and also two wilderness cabins that can be rented. These are popular with hikers and overnight campers alike.\n\nHikers will find more than 20 miles of designated trails, as well as many more unofficial trails. The Pacific Crest Trail, a 2,650-mile-long trail that runs from Mexico to Canada, passes through this area. A popular segment of this trail is the San Diego County portion of the Pacific Crest Trail. The Chiquito Loop Trail is a portion of this trail.\n\nThe Pamo Valley is a unique area, bordered by the Laguna Mountains to the east and Interstate 8 to the west. The mountains are part of a volcanic field that created the mountains and surrounding desert and includes the Volcan Mountains Wilderness Area.\n\nThe Spanish Dons, who ruled this region from 1769 to 1821, named the mountain range La Sierra de la Laguna. The name refers to the Laguna Mountains and to the lake that once existed at the present-day site of Lake Henshaw.\n\nThe Laguna Mountains contain a great deal of desert-like vegetation, such as ocotillo, desert holly and creosote bush. Some sections are forested with all three types of vegetation. The forested areas are home to the ponderosa pine, the largest and most long-lived tree in the United States.\n\nThe unique landscape of the Laguna Mountains includes the many canyons, ridges and mountains, which vary from 4,000 to 6,000 feet in elevation.\n\nCleveland National Forest is one of four national forests in California. The other three are the Angeles, Eldorado and San Bernardino National Forests.