"3.2 5 19 19\n\nvery nice product I purchased this because of the price,the fact that I was running out of my usual conditioner and it was on sale.I will purchase it again. 02-02-12\n\nFabulously Great Love, love, love this conditioner. My hair was silky soft without any heavy feeling. I love that it has SPF in it. This is a definite must have. 01-29-12\n\nStill Going Strong... ...after about 5 or 6 months. This is a really good buy, especially since it's usually on sale. I love the scent - not too floral, not too perfumey, just pleasant. This is a very rich, very nice conditioner that makes my hair silky smooth. I do recommend it, but the jury is still out on whether I'll buy it again because my hair has changed and I need a different type of product. 01-25-12\n\nnot the product for me I don't like the fragrance of this conditioner, it is too flowery. I usually love everything from QVC and try not to get disappointed by not returning but I will be sending this one back. 01-23-12\n\nBrilliant This conditioner is the best conditioner I have used in a long time. I have long hair, color treated, thick, and it is still soft, silky, and my hair is so much easier to manage since I started using this product. I am truly amazed. You won't be disappointed. 01-23-12\n\nPleasantly Surprised I am so glad I purchased this conditioner. My hair is long and curly and dry and damaged. I needed something that would make my hair soft and moisturized. I also wanted something with sunscreen protection. I use a rinse out conditioner along with this. My hair is soft, manageable, shiny, and the best part it is very moisturized. I will definately purchase again. 01-23-12\n\nLove this I love this conditioner. My hair has never been more soft, my scalp has never been so clean and healthy. I am so glad I made this purchase. 11-15-11\n\nLove, Love, Love I received my conditioner last week. I love it. It makes my hair so soft and healthy. I have color treated hair and I would recommend this to everyone who has color treated hair. Thank you Jamie. 11-10-11\n\nExcellent I got this on the blowout sale and I am glad I did. I have always wanted to try this conditioner and am glad I did. My hair is fine, color treated and this conditioner leaves my hair silky and shiny. I did notice it makes my hair a little frizzy but I spray on some Keri Spray and that stops it. I am a first time user of K-pak products and love them. 11-09-11\n\nMy hair is fine & dry. Great product. Hair is soft, shiny, & tangle free. Does not weigh hair down. 11-09-11\n\nLove It! This is the best conditioner I have ever used! It's not expensive, but works great! My hair is dry and I blow dry it, but it looks so great now, it doesn't need to be blow dried. The ends have never looked so healthy! I would highly recommend this! 11-06-11