In my world it's important to be organized. Especially when you live with more than two people, which I do. Most of the time, everything is on a schedule. No one is allowed to eat at 11pm unless they're hungry. Everyone is not allowed to leave dirty dishes in the sink unless they're at work. If you're working out at a certain time, you have to shower. No one can go outside unless it's to throw out the garbage. And so on and so forth.\n\nFor some reason, though, the whole "organization" idea flies right out the window when I'm trying to schedule a trip. I tend to plan things to the day and then get annoyed if something goes wrong or someone else wants to do something that may interfere. I hate it when someone wants to do something at a time that I've already booked for another thing. I feel like I should have priority, especially since I've planned this whole thing and if it were cancelled, I would have to pay for everything anyway.\n\nBut, guess what? I've realized I'm wrong. I've realized that while I may have planned the whole thing, other people need to be included too. And that they deserve a say in what goes on too. Maybe that means they have to drive back a different route to get home or they need to leave an hour earlier to get to their house. Maybe they need to stay later than they would have planned. Or maybe they don't want to leave. And that's ok. It doesn't have to ruin anything.\n\nAs long as everyone is included and has a say, it's all good. It doesn't mean that there won't be stress involved. There will be. I'm not going to lie. We may end up fighting about some things. Or they might leave early, which makes us upset. But at the end of the day, we're still family. We still love each other. We still get to have fun.\n\nI guess what I'm saying is that sometimes, I need to let other people in. To let them have a say in what happens. Otherwise, it will just be me against them. And I'd rather be the bigger person. I'd rather be the one who says "Fine, I'll do it this way" instead of the one who gets in an argument. I don't want to be the one who stays up late crying over something that went wrong and couldn't be avoided.\n\nSo, to sum up my whole blog: