The G20, the “Shangri-La” and the Global Trade War\n\nThe G20 is currently gathering in the Chinese city of Hangzhou. China has been actively preparing for the summit and has invested in the improvement of its infrastructure and public services. However, the relationship between China and the US has deteriorated in the past few weeks. The US has asked the WTO to look into what it describes as unfair treatment of US companies in China. Furthermore, the EU, the US and Japan have called for retaliatory measures against China, after the announcement of a new Chinese law to allow China to bypass international patents. On the other hand, there are indications that the Chinese government will relax foreign ownership restrictions in its auto industry, and also encourage the outflow of capital from the country. The theme of the summit is "Better Growth, Better World", and the three themes will be "growth", "inclusive growth", and "sustainable growth".\n\nAccording to a recent report by the World Bank, China has a great economic potential, yet faces severe challenges. These challenges include maintaining the economic growth, the management of urbanisation, the fight against corruption, the increasing inequality and the aging population. On the other hand, the report also concludes that China has the opportunity to become a major contributor to global growth, thanks to the fact that China is an important producer of capital, the country is growing in the manufacturing sector, and is also important in terms of consumption, which is expected to grow by more than 6% this year. The report also highlights the fact that China has been the biggest contributor to the global GDP growth in the last 15 years, with a contribution of 30%.\n\nOn the other hand, China is also a top trading partner of the US, with trade between the two countries amounting to more than $600 billion. Therefore, the potential of a trade war between the US and China would be dramatic. As the leaders of the two countries are gathering in the same city, the G20 summit will be an opportunity to address many of the issues between the two countries. As an example, the summit will discuss the sustainability of trade, both for exports and imports.\n\nIt seems that the US and China may be heading towards a trade war. If such a trade war will occur, it will have devastating consequences on both the US and Chinese economies, as well as on the global economy. Furthermore, the WTO may face a severe problem, as it would probably have to be the court of the two parties involved in the trade war. Thus, the G20 summit will be an important meeting and will represent a key opportunity for the leaders of the two countries to reach an agreement.