So by now you may have heard of a "new" release from Vince Flynn (it was new in 2009, but who's counting?), titled. For those that don't know, Vince Flynn is an author of contemporary thrillers who has sold over 10 million books, making him a prolific author by anyone's standards. He died on June 19, 2013 from complications of prostate cancer. Prior to his death, he finished up several books, one of which is the aforementioned.The cover above features Mitch Rapp (an undercover CIA agent) in a suit, staring down the barrel of a gun. Looks like something a hard boiled detective would be doing in an opening scene of a film. But this is Mitch Rapp, and so it's kind of appropriate.is one of my favorite books in the Mitch Rapp series, which was why I was excited when I heard the news about this book coming out. While I have not read the rest of the series (I have the first three), I am not worried about starting at the end of the series.is supposed to be a companion piece to theseries. It's the origin story of Rapp, focusing on his relationship with his girlfriend. When the book was first released, I couldn't find much about it, except that it was a short book. I did not read a single review of the book prior to reading it.Since then, I've read some reviews, and while some have raved about the book, I've found some that were less than favorable. I understand why some people might not like it, as it is a prequel to the series. I can't comment on whether it's better or worse than the rest of the series, but I can say that it was enjoyable for me.My favorite part of the book was the initial assassination attempt on Rapp and his girlfriend, Anna. Flynn really sets the stage for the rest of the book here. I did like the fact that I knew it was Mitch Rapp right off the bat. It is hinted at in, but I like knowing exactly who Rapp is. Plus, I think it sets a precedent for the rest of the series, and will keep the series consistent. It's nice to know the events that lead to the "end" of Mitch Rapp's story.As I said before, I didn't read any reviews prior to reading this book. So it wasn't until I was about halfway through the book that I was aware that it was supposed to be a stand-alone. It wasn't a bad thing for me to read it this way, but I know that may bother some people. I didn't find the ending to be a cliff hanger in any way. Sure, it could have been better, but I didn't find it unsatisfying.I'm not sure if there is a market for prequels in the thriller genre, but I'm glad I read this book. I think it added another layer to the story. While I can't speak for the rest of the series, I can say thatis a good book. And that's coming from someone who hasn't read the other books in the series.