"Badges - Universal Sports - Sports - Games\n\nHobbies - Universal Sports - Sports - Games\n\nCreating a Successful Long-Distance Relationship\n\nLong-distance relationships can be very challenging, but it doesn't have to be a lost cause. As with any relationship, the communication and commitment must be there. It is a good idea to have a list of the things you love about your partner, your partner’s name tattooed on your body, and a sense of humor. You must be willing to put aside any differences to remain committed to the relationship. If you are not already in a long-distance relationship, then you need to decide if you are willing to take the risk. The most important part of a successful long-distance relationship is communication. Some things that may be helpful are writing a letter, chatting on the phone or setting up a computer webcam to be able to see each other. Try not to have a long-distance relationship for the first time when you are really in love because it is easy to be disappointed. After a few months of long distance, if you still love each other then you may want to start planning for your future together. Many people in long-distance relationships will have a friend or relative who can help facilitate them meeting each other. It is important to try and make this first meeting as special as possible to help build the foundation for a long-distance relationship.\n\nLong-distance relationships are no different than any other relationship. If you have a lot of passion and love for one another, then you will be able to work through all of the issues to make your long-distance relationship successful. It is important to try and find out what your partner’s interests are to help facilitate the conversation. It is also helpful to communicate with them about things that are bothering you or concerns you have about the relationship. It is important that you both know each other’s feelings and be able to communicate them in a productive way. Remember that each relationship is different and you must work to understand your partner in order to have a successful long-distance relationship.\n\nSearch\n\nUniversal Sports Articles