Wells Fargo employees were accused of creating millions of fake accounts in order to boost sales, but a recent discovery has the bank facing additional controversy.\n\nWells Fargo employees were accused of creating millions of fake accounts in order to boost sales, but a recent discovery has the bank facing additional controversy.\n\nThe new allegations were revealed in a federal class action lawsuit against the company that also claims the firm discriminated against minorities in its mortgage lending division, The New York Times reported. The new lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court in California and claims that Wells Fargo violated the Fair Housing Act by discriminating against minorities in its mortgage lending division.\n\nThe lawsuit cited instances where loan officers were told to refer to African-American and Hispanic borrowers by code names, such as “mud people” and “ghetto customers,” to indicate which customers were to receive inferior service.\n\nWells Fargo spokeswoman, Mary Eshet, denied the allegations, and called them “an attempt to extract money from the company.”\n\n"Wells Fargo disputes the claims and will contest this lawsuit vigorously,” Eshet said in an email to the Times. “The allegations are an attempt to extract money from the company by litigious means. In fact, Wells Fargo has been a leader in helping minority customers and has reached millions of homeowners in underserved communities."\n\nThe Justice Department in February opened a criminal investigation into whether employees at the bank broke laws when they created false accounts. The investigation, led by the U.S. attorney in Sacramento, California, was initiated after the Times reported that employees had opened roughly two million accounts without the consent of customers. The lawsuit, which was first filed in January in state court, was amended in March to include the allegations that employees discriminated against minorities.\n\nAt the center of the federal criminal investigation are Carrie Tolstedt, the former head of Wells Fargo's community banking division, and other high-ranking executives. Employees were forced to meet internal sales quotas or face firing. Many said they were ordered to “pry into customers’ lives,” to boost sales. When employees failed to meet their sales targets, they were threatened with termination.\n\nA group of workers also filed a lawsuit against the company in state court in Utah in February, claiming that they were fired or forced to resign for refusing to participate in the alleged illegal activity.\n\nWells Fargo has been under scrutiny since the Los Angeles Times first reported the illegal sales practices in September. The bank has since apologized for the conduct of its employees, and said the bank’s top leadership was unaware of the misconduct. The bank reached a $185 million settlement with regulators in September, and fired about 5,300 employees, including Tolstedt.\n\nWells Fargo has since announced several policy changes to reform its sales practices and will create a board committee to oversee the changes. The committee will be led by Elizabeth Duke, a former member of the Federal Reserve, and Sherry Hunt, the bank’s former chief financial officer.\n\nThe Justice Department did not comment on the new lawsuit, but spokeswoman Nicole Navas Oxman told the Times that the department takes discrimination allegations seriously.\n\n“The department takes fair lending allegations very seriously,” she said.