"About Us\n\nCall Us:\n\n208-887-5200 (office)\n\n208-426-3264 (fax)\n\nPO Box 498\n\nMcCall, ID 83638\n\nOur Staff\n\nJim Hagedorn, Executive Director\n\nHugh Wilson, Fire Marshal\n\nBonnie Boyd, Deputy Fire Marshal\n\nJim Hagedorn is an Idaho native and was raised in the Magic Valley area. He has been in the fire service for 30 years and has served in the following positions: Firefighter, Emergency Medical Technician, Fire Inspector, Investigator, Lieutenant, Assistant Chief, and Executive Director. He received his associate degree in fire science and bachelor’s degree in sociology from Boise State University. He also has received certification as a Fire Investigator and NFPA fire inspector. Jim is the recipient of numerous awards including Chief’s Award of Excellence, Fire Investigator of the Year, and four outstanding firefighter awards. Jim was named Idaho Fire Chief of the Year in 2006 and received the Fire and Life Safety Educator of the Year award from the International Association of Fire Chiefs in 2010. Jim has also served as an adjunct instructor at Boise State University and Northwest Nazarene College. Jim has been married to Pam for thirty-three years and they have three sons. Jim serves on the steering committee for the Treasure Valley Emergency Management Organization, the McCall Council of Governments Transportation Committee, and the Interagency Fire Council as a member and the Professional Standards & Training Committee as Chair.\n\nHugh Wilson is a recent graduate of Boise State University and obtained his bachelor’s degree in Fire Administration. Hugh started his fire service career in Nampa, ID as a volunteer firefighter/EMT and later as a full time firefighter/paramedic. He has over 20 years of fire service experience and he has been in the McCall area since 2005. Hugh’s duties include: fire and arson investigations, building inspections, fire prevention/education, code enforcement, administration, and communications. Hugh is the Idaho State Fire Investigator for the Kootenai County area and is also on the board of directors for the Panhandle Fire District. Hugh and his wife have three children and one grandchild. Hugh also volunteers with the Kootenai County Search & Rescue Team and was the Firefighter of the Year in 2006.\n\nBonnie Boyd is a lifelong resident of Idaho and has been in the fire service since 1995. Bonnie has worked for the McCall Fire Department since 1996. She served as the Training Captain for many years and currently is the Deputy Fire Marshal. Bonnie is also a part time firefighter with the Kootenai County Fire District #1 in Cascade and is the Idaho State Fire Investigator for Kootenai County. Bonnie is the current Idaho State Firefighter of the Year. She has also been the recipient of four outstanding firefighter awards and a fire safety educator of the year award. Bonnie is a member of the North Idaho Safety Council and serves as the NFPA coordinator for Idaho. Bonnie and her husband, Tom, have four children.