Centuries ago the Aral Sea was a vast freshwater lake with no outlet. Today, it has been almost completely reduced to a couple of brackish lakes. But now this disappearing ecosystem is the site of a huge experiment on the possibility of using natural processes to undo environmental damage. An effort is under way to reflood a part of the Aral Sea that has been dry since the 1960s.\n\nThe Aral Sea, in central Asia, has long been known for its commercial fish. But since 1960, its waters have been steadily drying up. First, the Soviet Union diverted water from the two rivers that fed the sea, the Amu Darya and Syr Darya. The aim was to grow wheat on the newly irrigated land. Then the U.S.S.R. did the same with what was left of the Aral Sea.\n\nThe Aral Sea has been reduced by 50 percent. It is about one-third of its former size. With no fresh water flowing in and only brackish water flowing out, the Aral Sea has become a big lake, minus the life in the lake.\n\nBut now a joint effort is under way to reflood the part of the sea that was once part of Kazakhstan. That project, the largest-ever ecological restoration, is led by the International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas, or I.C.A.R.D.A.\n\nNizami Toloyan, director of I.C.A.R.D.A. in Uzbekistan, says that restoring the Aral Sea's ecosystem is extremely important for the region.\n\n"It is very important to save this unique nature," said Mr. Toloyan. "We have to save it. The only chance to do this is to restore the sea. There is no other way."\n\nFrom the air, it is apparent why there is only one way to save the Aral Sea. From space, you can see the vast desert, spread over almost 250,000 square kilometers, as well as the network of canals and fields irrigated with brackish water.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union broke up in 1991, the then-independent Uzbekistan took over the lower part of the Aral Sea. But in the past few years, the dam at the mouth of the Syr Darya, which is the last remaining source of water, has developed leaks.\n\nExperts believe the volume of water is about to decline further.\n\nIn the past decade, the sea has been gradually disappearing, as its water evaporates, leaving the salinity behind. So far, only about a meter of water has evaporated from the sea, but further shrinkage could leave the bottom dry.\n\nAn unusual alliance of government and nongovernment groups is working to reverse the Aral Sea's decline.\n\nWater from the Syr Darya is being diverted to its upper section, which is partly reflooded and partly maintained as a river. The Amu Darya is being diverted as well.\n\nSpecial channels have been dug to reduce the salinity of the Aral Sea's outflow. They are meant to protect the sensitive lower part of the sea and slow its shrinking.\n\nOfficials hope that within a few years the sea will be stable. A reservoir, which will be filled by rivers and the waters of the Aral Sea itself, is being created. This reservoir, which is expected to be some 400 kilometers in length, is meant to help restore the Aral Sea ecosystem.\n\nUzbek officials say that about $300 million has been invested in the project so far. An estimated $20 million is needed each year for the next several years.\n\nWith the help of experts from Russia, Kazakhstan and the United States, Uzbekistan has decided to restore a lake the size of 20,000 square kilometers, more than half the size of Lake Superior. But this will not restore the Aral Sea as a whole.\n\nSome scientists believe that what has been done so far is not enough. They argue that it is not enough to restore just one part of the Aral Sea.\n\n"The way the rest of the Aral Sea is shrinking, in 10 years the shoreline will be very close to these lakes," said Chris Reij, director of the World Wetlands International. "We do not think that in the long term this is a way to save the sea. The sea needs to be restored. It needs to be reflooded."\n\nI.C.A.R.D.A. agrees, but it says the challenge of bringing water to the entire Aral Sea is greater.\n\nOne of the main problems is that the Amu Darya River, which is the main water source, flows through politically unstable countries and is polluted with industrial waste. Experts say the water quality must be improved before it is used for the Aral Sea restoration project.\n\nOfficials say the sooner the Amu Darya is brought back to a natural state, the better. But they say that will take decades.