As Hillary Clinton finally released the transcripts of her paid speeches to Wall Street firms in the spring of this year, much was made of the millions of dollars she was paid by Goldman Sachs for these appearances. But the speeches themselves are revealing for a number of other reasons. As the excerpts and transcripts of these speeches make clear, the former secretary of state and Democratic presidential candidate is not only closely connected to Wall Street, but has a vision of international affairs that is essentially a continuation of that of the Obama administration.\n\nOne excerpt that stood out was Clinton’s comment that “China’s aggressive [economic] moves in the South China Sea are aimed at intimidating its neighbors.” In the same speech, Clinton went on to describe Chinese ambitions as “more than a twenty-first-century version of the imperialism of previous centuries.” This comment, made in a speech before the Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago in 2013, is a perfect illustration of the hypocrisy of the U.S. position on the issue of China and the South China Sea.\n\nThe U.S. continues to deny that China has any legitimate claim over territory in the South China Sea, where it has clashed with Vietnam and the Philippines, and holds territorial disputes with Malaysia and Brunei. At the same time, the U.S. has steadily increased its military presence throughout the region, holding constant freedom of navigation exercises in which the U.S. engages in provocations to China.\n\nBut if China is acting like the imperialist nations of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the U.S. and its allies are not far behind. The U.S. has taken its position on the South China Sea dispute from the Philippines, a small country that would benefit greatly from being able to deny China access to those waters. The U.S. is also engaged in a trade war with China, which has seen the U.S. begin to investigate Chinese state-owned enterprises that are involved in financing the development of major energy projects in Central and South America. This move, while presented as an effort to curb China’s economic influence in the region, is aimed at forcing the development of oil and gas projects that are more economically viable, which will in turn require that the U.S. provide the financing necessary to make them viable.\n\nClinton also made clear her full support for Israel’s bombardment of Gaza last summer, insisting that it was Israel’s “right” to defend itself. In reality, the right to self-defense is guaranteed under international law, and Israel, like any state, is entitled to defend itself from attack.\n\nClinton also insisted that Hamas is not a terrorist organization, and accused those who say it is of having a “blinkered view.” But the U.S. itself officially labels Hamas a terrorist organization. And despite the fact that Hamas has ruled the Gaza Strip since 2007, there is no doubt that it is the only major party to the conflict. Israel has worked to destroy all other resistance groups, in the West Bank and Gaza, in order to maintain its domination of the Palestinian population. It also has no qualms about massacring Palestinian civilians if they dare to resist. Clinton’s apparent support for Israel’s destruction of Gaza and the killing of over 2,100 Palestinians last summer is not surprising. But it does demonstrate her willingness to turn a blind eye to mass murder, in the name of what she regards as the “national interest.”\n\nClinton also expressed support for the overthrow of the elected government of Ukraine and its replacement with a government more amenable to the West. The U.S. has maintained support for the Ukrainian regime even as its leaders have used brutal police tactics to suppress anti-government protests.\n\nWhile Clinton did express some opposition to NSA spying in one speech, she insisted that the U.S. must use all the tools at its disposal to spy on potential enemies, as well as its own citizens. In this way, she justified the infamous revelations by Edward Snowden, which exposed the extent of the U.S. spying. At the same time, she opposed the creation of any special court or authority that would be allowed to review U.S. spying activities.\n\nAt one point, she referred to the Obama administration’s attempts to reach an agreement on the nuclear program of Iran as the “toughest negotiating” the U.S. has ever done. She insisted that it was important to reach an agreement, but that Iran would have to be prevented from ever developing a nuclear weapon, in order to preserve Israel’s nuclear monopoly.\n\nClinton’s close connections to Wall Street are only part of the story. She also remains deeply tied to the U.S. military and its efforts to control the planet. These two factors, in turn, make her the perfect representative of the foreign policy establishment and the military-industrial complex. The only real surprise is that so many people can claim to be surprised.\n\nAdvertisements