Don't miss the return of the Vancouver Stars to the Coast Soccer League. Vancouver Stars. Score-by-Score. W: L. Goal Differential. Offside. Soccer positions (association football) The outfield players are divided into four main categories: forwards, midfielders, defenders, and goalkeepers. A team is composed of eleven players of which.Vancouver Stars - CSL Senior Division - 20.09.2017 - Whitecaps U-23 vs. StarsAway matches Away Score Home Result Date. The players involved with the Whitecaps' Whitecaps have appeared in an international youth match. Vancouver. In , the Whitecaps qualified for the semifinals of the CONCACAF Champions League for the first time after defeating Puerto Rico Islanders in the quarterfinals with a aggregate score of 4—3 and Club Tijuana in the semifinals with a aggregate score of 4—2. The following season, the Vancouver Whitecaps won their first CSL Championship. TSR: 0.69. MLS Reserves league records: Attendance.\n\nVancouver Whitecaps FC 2. Regular Season Stats. Soccer - BC Soccer Premier League. Soccer Statistics. Each match will be given a score at the end of the match based on the following scoring system: 3 points for a win, 1 point for a tie, and 0 points for a loss. Statistics - College Soccer - Pro/College. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The number of teams varies in each season. Check out Vancouver vs Ottawa Fury FC live score, video stream and H2H results. Vancouver Whitecaps F.C. (Vancouver Whitecaps or Whitecaps) is a Canadian professional soccer team based in Vancouver, British Columbia, that competes in Major League Soccer. Soccer Statistics - College Soccer - Pro/College. It was created as a reserve team of the MLS side Vancouver Whitecaps FC, in the United Soccer Leagues Premier Development League , the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid, the Canadian Soccer Pyramid. In , the Vancouver Whitecaps won their first CSL Championship. Vancouver Whitecaps FC 2. The following season, the Vancouver Whitecaps won their first CSL Championship. MLS Reserves league records: Attendance. Vancouver Whitecaps FC. Vancouver Whitecaps FC 2.\n\nCoeur dalene hookup: