I feel fortunate to be surrounded by some of the most beautiful and breathtaking people on the planet. They come in all shapes and sizes, as well as ages. I believe that the majority of my friends are also kind, giving, loving people. They will usually say hello and show you some type of respect.\n\nI often think to myself that this world could be a better place if we all did just that. We would not be so quick to judge someone. We would not be so quick to condemn.\n\nThere is this lady that I see from time to time who I really believe needs to be spoken to. I do not know her, but it seems as though I know her very well. She’s a Caucasian woman who is somewhere between 40 and 50 years old. She is a bit heavier than I am, but not by much. She has a really short haircut and her hair is mostly grey. I have noticed her shopping in a few different stores in my area. In fact, I have seen her in about 5 different stores in the last few months. Every time I see her, she is walking.\n\nShe appears to be dressed for comfort, as opposed to style. She will wear sneakers, jeans, and a t-shirt. She is never in makeup or jewelry, which is very different than me.\n\nI have noticed that every time I see her, she is carrying a purse. I have also noticed that the purse she carries is never the same. Some of them are a good quality, but others seem to be quite worn. I have also noticed that she carries this purse everywhere. It is as if it is her only possession.\n\nI have been waiting for the right moment to talk to her, but the right moment has yet to present itself. She never makes eye contact with me and will turn the other way. She walks through the aisles of the stores, sometimes stopping to read a label or check out a sale.\n\nOne day she was carrying one of her shopping bags and decided to put it on the bench next to me. I believe she noticed that I was watching her. She quickly looked around and made eye contact with me. I immediately looked away and pretended to be busy. She picked up her bag and left in a hurry.\n\nI am not exactly sure what it is about this lady that intrigues me so much. Is it because she carries all her possessions in a bag? Is it because she seems so content with her appearance and the way she is living?\n\nWhat do you think about this? Would you talk to her?\n\nMy friend told me to be careful. She told me that I could make things worse for this lady. I know she is right. I know this lady is living her life the way she wants to. I know that her life is her own and that no one has the right to criticize her for the way she chooses to live.\n\nI just want to know her story. I just want to know who she is. I would also like to get to know her, to have a friendship with her. I want to know how she got to where she is and what her dreams are for her life. I feel that she is someone who could benefit from being around people. I also feel that I could benefit from being around her. I could help her in many ways, but it would be up to her to accept my help. I would want to do more for her, but I would not try to force her to do anything.\n\nWould you approach this lady? If you did, how would you do it? I would really love to hear your comments about this. I would also like to know your story. Have you ever approached a stranger in the store or out in public?