New research by a team of psychologists at The University of Texas at Austin suggests that remembering to take a prescribed drug in the future can be strengthened if individuals are able to actively do something in the present that helps them remember.\n\nThe findings of the study, published in the June issue of the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, suggest that performing an action in the present that is associated with the future event could help people to remember to perform the action when it is needed.\n\n"It's a little counter-intuitive," says Dr. Andrew Butler, a UT-Austin professor of psychology who co-authored the paper with UT-Austin graduate students Olivia Munoz and Meredith Coles. "Normally we think of actions as something that you do in the future. But here, performing an action that would remind someone to do something in the future actually helps them remember to do it in the future."\n\nThe study suggests that performing an action in the present to facilitate remembering in the future might be applied to remembering any kind of event, ranging from exercising to attending medical appointments, or doing chores around the house.\n\n"If you're a person with Type II diabetes and you have to take your insulin, a good way to remember is to take a dose of insulin now that you will remember to take your medication at a later time," says Munoz. "This study suggests that if you do something in the present that is a cue to remembering, you will remember better.\n\n"You're building a mental association between the action in the present and a future event. As a result, when you perform that action in the future, you will remember."\n\nThe team tested the theory on 40 participants, asking them to remember to complete certain tasks later on.\n\nEach participant was asked to complete a series of "cued recall" tasks. They were presented with a series of visual patterns and were asked to recall which of the patterns had been presented. They then were presented with the same series of patterns, with the instructions that this time, they should perform a physical action in response to each pattern they recalled.\n\n"This was the active task that we gave the participants, and we were varying the timing," Munoz says. "In some of the tasks, we told the participants that the active task would cue them to the visual pattern and that they would recall it after they performed the active task. In other trials, we told them that the task would cue them to recall, but that they would not perform the task."\n\nAfter all of the participants performed the task, they were presented with another series of visual patterns. Each pattern would be followed by the same series of four actions. The participants were then asked to recall which action went with which pattern.\n\nThe results were as expected: Participants who performed a task that helped them to remember the patterns performed better on the cued recall than those who were told that the task was simply to remind them of the pattern.\n\n"The people who performed the active task remembered more patterns than those who just passively recalled the patterns. It seemed that performing the action helped them to remember.\