In the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris, people across the world have reached out to support the French people by drawing messages on the ground in chalk. These messages were meant to show solidarity with the people of Paris and to also symbolize the hope that peace and love will eventually prevail. However, one police department in Philadelphia was less than enthused with these beautiful sentiments and arrested a man for writing “pray for Paris” in chalk outside of a local train station.\n\nSadly, this is not the first time that the police have shut down people who have tried to show their support for the French people. While the government claims that they are in lock-down and on high alert because of these attacks, these arrests just prove that they are just using the Paris attacks as an excuse to stop free speech. It is ironic that the police are allowing everyone to wear the French flag on their shirt and fly it from their houses but they will arrest people for drawing a peaceful message in chalk. In fact, you don’t even have to be “supporting” Paris to get arrested, the police even arrested someone for writing “pray for peace” in chalk on the sidewalk.\n\nThis is yet another example of how the police in America are rapidly becoming the enemy of the people. Every day, it seems that a new video goes viral of an officer abusing their power and dishing out violence. This is a perfect example of a “thin blue line” that is not protecting the citizens but instead protecting other officers when they cross the line. It is almost as if the police are now the biggest gang in America.\n\nThe world is a scary place, especially right now. However, the people will always find a way to express themselves. No matter what country, people will always write things on the ground. The fact that the police in Philadelphia arrested someone for writing “pray for Paris” shows that they are living in the past and do not realize that the world has changed.\n\nFor instance, when people look back at this time period, they will look at these arrests as the final straw that broke the camel’s back. This was the point in time where the police were no longer protecting and serving the people but instead were abusing their power and violating the rights of the people. The next time that the police decide to lock down an entire city because of a bomb scare, you might see all of the citizens walking around with pieces of chalk, showing solidarity with the people of Paris and showing the world that they will not stand for these types of actions.\n\n*Published 10/18/15\n\nJoshua Krause was born and raised in the Bay Area. He is a writer and researcher focused on principles of self-sufficiency and liberty at Ready Nutrition. You can follow Joshua’s work at our Facebook page or on his personal Twitter. Joshua’s website is Strange Danger\n\nThis information has been made available by Ready Nutrition\n\nIf you found this article useful, please Vote for Ready Nutrition as a top prepper web site.\n\nshare this article with others\n\nrelated reading\n\nfeatured today\n\nLeave A Comment...\n\nReady Nutrition Home Page