They did it again\n\nIt was amazing and incredible. The whole world was watching the number of people gathered for his inauguration at the Washington mall was amazing. Many other parts of the world gathered in front of TV screens to watch the ceremony. Barack Obama is the 44th President of the United States.\n\nWe are still trying to understand what this event means and how it is going to change the history of the United States and the history of the whole world. The inauguration of Barack Obama represents a new spirit for the United States. A spirit of opening towards the world and of inclusion for all people.\n\nI have been watching the TV all morning and afternoon. I could not take my eyes off the screen. I was so excited. I was so proud to be an American. I was very proud to be part of the human race.\n\nDuring the ceremony at the Washington mall the words of Martin Luther King and of the Prophet Mohammad (Peace and blessings be upon him) were read to the audience. It was a very moving ceremony.\n\nTo be American is very important because the United States has been the symbol of the New World, the new era. The history of the United States is a history of great hope. We hope that the new President of the United States will continue to move the United States towards this great hope.\n\nAt the same time, President Obama has a great responsibility. A responsibility to all the people who support him and who have voted for him. A responsibility to all the people who are dreaming about the same world, the world of justice and equality for all the people of the world.\n\nDuring his speech, President Obama mentioned the name of the Prophet (PBUH). It was a very important moment. It was an important sign of respect for all the people who believe in God.\n\nToday we are more optimistic than ever about the future of the world. Today we feel stronger and more confident about the future of the world. It is a very special day for the people of the world. It is a day of hope. A day of celebration for the people of the world. It is the beginning of the future of the world.\n\nThe inauguration of President Barack Obama is a day of celebration for all the people of the world. It is the beginning of a new era.