We at the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) have been trying to answer this question ever since we were formed a decade ago.\n\nWe've published three detailed manifestos, a comprehensive programme of change for Scotland. Yet we know that all our work will not be enough to build a new society. This can only be done by the people themselves, once they have been freed from the shackles of class rule.\n\nOur efforts to inspire and mobilise people have resulted in significant advances over the last decade. We have been a key contributor to the change in Scotland, from when the independence referendum was an almost taboo subject, to its high-profile status today.\n\nSince the 2014 vote we have worked to win support for independence among working-class people, and help lay the foundations of a new socialist force. Our manifesto, 'Change the World, Start with Scotland', which we launched just two months ago, describes how we are creating the conditions for that party to emerge.\n\nOur role in this process will be to help build a strong movement, mobilising thousands of people to build a socialist Scotland. This movement will be led by ordinary people, but it will also need a party to organise it, to help take it forward.\n\nOur next step is to stand candidates in the council elections in May, and stand in as many seats as possible in the Westminster election in June. As we grow, we'll stand in elections at every level – from Westminster and Holyrood to councils and local boards.\n\nWhen the independence referendum was first proposed, it was only because the ruling class was fearful of the SNP achieving an outright majority in the Scottish Parliament, something that seemed likely at the time.\n\nSince then, the SNP has become a central pillar of the establishment. Its focus is on capturing the maximum possible number of Westminster seats, so it can be a key player in the UK establishment. The SNP has been careful to distance itself from the more radical demands of the independence movement, limiting the question to one of national status.\n\nAs a result, those people who voted Yes have been left high and dry. There is no movement to give them a voice. Only the SSP is capable of that. We believe that in order to create a fair and equal society, Scotland needs to build a movement that will make real change.\n\nWhile the SNP can gain power by appealing to a more conservative section of the population, we need a bolder, radical approach. Only the SSP offers a real alternative to austerity and cuts, and a vision for a more equal and prosperous society.\n\nOur vision is for a socialist Scotland: a modern democratic republic based on the common ownership of the means of production, and the principle "from each according to their ability, to each according to their needs".\n\nWe are socialists because we know that the old capitalist system will always mean inequality and poverty. Only a new, democratic and socialist society can tackle the problems people face, from housing to low pay, from growing debt to climate change.\n\nWe have to take a stand for what we believe in. We have to be ready to show that a better world is possible, and the only way to do that is to offer a radical alternative to the mainstream political parties. That is the responsibility we have to take.