Rottnest Island\n\nThe second island in the chain, after its neighbours Fremantle and Rottnest, is Barrack Street. In 1831, a convict ship called the “Duke of Wellington” (there are other tales about the origins of the name) ran aground here and was eventually abandoned. The women were moved to Fremantle Prison. The wreck is still there, but it is being eaten by the sea. You can walk to it on a path from Waterhouse Beach. The best way to see the island is by bike, though, because it is so small and flat. The bikes are provided by a company called Island Experience Rottnest. This is a great way to see the island. It costs around $25, which gets you a bike and the unlimited use of it for three hours. They give you a map and instructions, but you can see the whole island by walking in about an hour.\n\nThere are very few buildings here, but what there are have a very interesting history. For example, there is the Weeroona Hotel, the oldest operating hotel in the state. It is run by a company that is owned by the island’s inhabitants. The oldest building is called the Round House. It was built in 1833 and has been restored to the 1830s period. It used to be the men’s quarters. There is also a small cathedral that was built in 1901, and is called St Mary’s Cathedral. There is also a cricket ground here that was originally established in the 1840s. This island was once the penal colony. The ruins of two of the prisons, the Governor’s residence and the convicts’ huts can be seen. They are located at a place called Settlement.\n\nCamel Rock\n\nThis is the most important landmark of the island. It is visible for many miles, and is sometimes mistaken for a camel. The sandstone is interesting, as it was formed from quartzite, which is a very hard stone. Some of the grains have been turned to iron oxide, which is a reddish brown. This was done by chemical reactions that were the result of oxygen and iron.\n\nSome rock formations can also be seen at the Quobba station, which is a restored 19th century railway station. There are a few lookouts here, but the best is at Arch Rock, which is a short distance from the main road. There are about 200 species of birds here, and there is a sanctuary that is managed by a conservation group called the Rottnest Island Conservation Society. This is home to the Tawny Frogmouth, the Black-breasted Button-quail, the Malleefowl, and the Rottnest Island White-tailed Black-Cockatoo.\n\nThere is also an Interpretive Centre that explains the history of the island and its different birds. Another reason to visit this island is the fact that the Aboriginal people, the Wadjuk, were here first. There is an Aboriginal reserve that is in the northern area of the island, and there is also a sacred site that can be seen there. The site is called Yanjul, which means “man with spear”. The local Aboriginals still refer to the island as Wadjemup, which means “Island of Peace”. The First Fleet stopped at this island, and as such it is the only island in the world where two different nations fought for control.\n\nPlaces to Stay\n\nThere are a few different places to stay on this island. Most of the accommodations are self catering. There are also a few bed and breakfasts, and there is even a four star hotel called the Sheraton Rottnest Island Resort. There are over 250 different cottages to stay at, some of which have been converted from old army barracks. The Great Western Hotel is the only hotel here that has electricity and telephone connections, so you may want to stay there if you want to be near the center of things. There are many hotels here, but most of them are more expensive than the average.