Scioto River and Heritage Corridor\n\nThe Scioto River and Heritage Corridor is a partnership between Ohio, Ohio counties, municipalities, organizations, and non-profit organizations, working together to develop a greenway along the Scioto River from the Ohio River to downtown Columbus. The goal is to provide a continuous trail, open for public use, from Cincinnati to southernmost Columbus. The Corridor is broken into several sub-sections, and is managed by various sub-organizations.\n\nThe Scioto Greenway is an organization formed in 1996 to begin acquiring the corridor land and eventually developing it. Currently, the Greenway consists of of land that is preserved and of corridor that is developed as park land. The Scioto Greenway is also a trail system that currently includes over of trail open for public use.\n\nThe Greenway land is owned by the cities, townships, and county that are a part of the partnership. Some land is still owned by private owners. The partnership acquires the land using a variety of methods, such as land swaps, easements, and purchase of land.\n\nThe Ohio Department of Natural Resources administers the Ohio portion of the Corridor. The project is part of the Ohio Legacy Trails Network. The National Park Service administers the National Trails System Act, which designates the Corridor as part of the National Trails System. The National Trails System consists of 12 national scenic trails, and eight national historic trails. The Scioto Trail is designated as the first National River Trail. The National Park Service Rivers, Trails, and Conservation Assistance Program (RTCA) provides technical assistance and training to help with the development of the Corridor.\n\nThe Corridor is composed of the Scioto Greenway and its connections.\n\nIn July 2008, a non-profit organization was formed for the Scioto Trail. The organization is called the Scioto Greenway Trail, Inc. The trail is managed by a trail director, who is appointed by the board of directors. The organization is charged with preserving the trail corridor. The board is composed of county commissioners and mayors of cities and towns along the trail.\n\n