Cambridge Common\n\nCambridge Common is a public park in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It is located between Massachusetts Avenue and Garden Street, and Brattle Street and JFK Street. The park is home to many monuments and statues including the George Washington Monument and the Daniel Chester French statues of Paul Revere and Robert Gould Shaw.\n\nThe Common was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark in 1965. It is part of the Boston National Historical Park.\n\nAccording to the City of Cambridge, the Common "evokes the birth of American Democracy." The Common was used by the first settlers of Boston as a grazing pasture for cattle and livestock, but became a Town Common after the Town of Cambridge was created in 1630. The City of Cambridge states that, "The Common was used for military drilling and mustering during the 17th and 18th centuries, and the militia members were occasionally quartered on the Common." It was used as a camp by the British before the American Revolutionary War began in 1775.\n\nA detailed history of the Cambridge Common can be found at the Cambridge Common Historical Society.\n\nA map of the Revolutionary War Battle of Cambridge shows the disposition of the troops and how they moved to various positions. The common was used as a camp ground during the Siege of Boston and as a muster ground in 1775, as well as for training and drilling. The British had guns placed on it, and during the battle it was used by both sides.\n\nGeorge Washington's first headquarters were near the Common at the John Vassall House, which stood in what is now Harvard Yard. He moved his headquarters to less exposed quarters across the Charles River in October 1775.\n\nThe Common is also home to a memorial honoring General Abner Doubleday, who is erroneously credited with inventing baseball. The memorial is a statue of Doubleday in front of the Doubleday Field gate to the common. It is one of two such statues, the other being in Cooperstown, New York. Doubleday was in fact a lifelong baseball fan who may have been involved in developing the game while a cadet at West Point, but he did not actually invent the game.\n\nThe main area of the Common is a flat, grassy field interspersed with trees, with a small, man-made lake in the center. Along its borders are brick sidewalks. Two 18-hole disc golf courses were installed in 1981, and two more in 1988. The latter two are technically on the Cambridge Common Golf Course, an adjacent parcel of land in Belmont that was purchased by the city in the 1980s, where the former driving range was converted into a grass field surrounded by trees, and where two 18-hole courses were built. The National Park Service states that "The Common, as well as the eighteenth century Bow and Arrow and original disc golf courses are accessible and used for passive recreation from dawn to dusk, daily."\n\nThe Common is the site of several statues and memorials, most prominently the Civil War Memorial Grove, which features the Civil War Memorial and a monument to General George S. Patton, Sr. who was from Cambridge and a former U.S. Congressman, and a statue of George Washington.\n\nThere is also a memorial to Ephraim Gerrish, one of the first to die in the American Revolutionary War. There is a monument to local soldiers who have fallen in the Iraq War. The stone monument is in the shape of a star, and the name of the fallen is inscribed on the star's points.\n\nA statue of Civil War general Robert Gould Shaw, sculpted by Daniel Chester French and Augustus St. Gaudens, stands on the Common as part of the Shaw Memorial. The memorial was originally located on nearby Boston Common but was moved to the Cambridge Common in 1904 to allow access by more people, and is one of the first monuments to an African American. The second statue, depicting Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe with a young student, is located in the nearby Simches Corner section of the Boston Public Garden, a short walk from the main Common. Howe is best known as the co-founder of the Perkins School for the Blind, and the statue is a popular destination for school field trips.\n\nThe "Civil War Memorial" on the Common was completed in 1872. It was designed by Henry Howard, architect of the famed Memorial Hall in Worcester, Massachusetts. The memorial was partially paid for by George Washington Gould, a local resident who made his fortune in California gold fields. The granite obelisk is tall and is the second largest granite monument in the United States, surpassed only by the Washington Monument in Washington, D.C. Its inscription reads "Erected in Memory of the Soldiers from Cambridge Who Fought For the Union in the War of 1861-1865."\n\nThere is a small plaque next to the monument listing the names of the men from Cambridge who fought in the war. The bronze statue of a Civil War infantryman located next to the monument was designed by Augustus Lukeman and cast in 1874.\n\nIn 2004, the monument was restored and renovated by a group of local volunteers. The restoration included sandblasting the obelisk, repairing the granite, and repainting the soldier. A new monument, which also listed the names of soldiers from Cambridge who died in the Vietnam War, was added to the memorial. The Civil War Memorial, along with the Paul Revere Memorial, is one of the first two structures in Massachusetts to be listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe central water feature in the park is the "Polar Bear Plunge," a fountain that is operational from April through October, which was built in 1967. This is located in front of the the main library. There is also a fountain that is off in a small gazebo to the west.\n\nThe "Col. George Armistead Monument" was dedicated on the Cambridge Common on September 17, 1872. It was donated by the Grand Army of the Republic. The Monument commemorates Col. Armistead who was wounded at the Battle of Gettysburg, July 3, 1863. He was carried from the field and taken to Cambridge. After his recovery he returned to duty in 1864. His death occurred in 1895. His remains are buried in the family cemetery in Maryland.\n\nThe "Civil War Memorial" is located in the center of the Common, and is surrounded by the Civil War Battle"