WASHINGTON -- A federal judge on Wednesday blocked Arkansas from enforcing four new abortion restrictions, including a ban on a common second trimester procedure, but said he would separately rule on whether a 12-week ban was constitutional.\n\nThe new restrictions were passed this year by the Arkansas Legislature and signed into law by Gov. Asa Hutchinson, a Republican. Arkansas was the 15th state to ban the procedure known medically as dilation and evacuation.\n\nUS District Court Judge Kristine Baker issued a preliminary, permanent injunction against the state that bars enforcement of the restrictions, including a ban on abortions that involve more than one physician. Baker said the requirements would impose a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion.\n\nBaker said in her ruling that a woman would be facing "some of the most severe, indeed desperate, circumstances imaginable."\n\nBaker issued her ruling late Wednesday but it wasn't clear when she would issue a final decision on the constitutionality of the 12-week ban. She noted that Planned Parenthood had presented enough evidence that it was entitled to a preliminary injunction against the measure.\n\nPlanned Parenthood Great Plains spokeswoman Emily Wales said the injunction was a win for Arkansas women and families.\n\n"Planned Parenthood Great Plains is committed to ensuring that patients can get the care they need and will continue to fight to protect access to safe, legal abortion in Arkansas," Wales said in a statement.\n\nCody Hiland, the state attorney general, said he was disappointed in the ruling and added that he would appeal Baker's decision.\n\n"As Attorney General, I have fully defended this law at every turn and appreciate the court's decision to recognize that the State of Arkansas is on solid legal ground," he said.\n\nIn issuing her ruling, Baker said the state had not pointed to any evidence that the requirement that a second physician be present when a first-trimester abortion was performed would further the health or safety of a woman. She said it was "likely to reduce the number of physicians willing to perform abortions and ... limit a woman's access to abortion services in the State."\n\nBaker said the new law also would impose an "undue burden" on a woman's right to terminate a pregnancy before viability.\n\nAnother part of the law would have banned a common second-trimester abortion procedure known as dilation and evacuation. The judge said that would effectively ban abortion for some women.\n\nBaker said the U.S. Supreme Court has "repeatedly affirmed that states may not prohibit any woman from making the ultimate decision to terminate her pregnancy before viability."\n\nThis is the second time in a week that a federal judge has blocked Arkansas from enforcing a new abortion law. Baker issued a preliminary injunction last week that prevented Arkansas from enforcing a ban on a second-trimester abortion procedure known as dilation and evacuation.