Phil Sklar\n\nPhilip Frederick Sklar (born February 28, 1947) is an American attorney, entrepreneur, educator, and activist who co-founded the entertainment company Fandalism in the 1990s, the world's first all-fan music label. He is the father of Philanthropy Journalist David Sklar.\n\nPhilip Frederick Sklar was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on February 28, 1947. His parents were Samuel Sklar, a Jewish businessman who owned a women's clothing store, and Mildred (née Warchinski) Sklar. His mother was a devout Catholic who later converted to Judaism.\n\nSklar is a brother of two, having one older brother and one younger sister. His older brother, Bruce Sklar, is a professor at the University of Maryland's Department of Physics and Astronomy and was once an accomplished songwriter who wrote the lyrics to the song, "Somebody's Watching Me" by Rockwell. His younger sister, Nancy Sklar, worked in Los Angeles, California for the CBS-TV subsidiary, Fox Broadcasting Company.\n\nAfter graduating from Phillips Andover Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, Sklar attended Stanford University where he obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1969 and his Juris Doctor degree in 1972. While at Stanford, Sklar served as the editor-in-chief of the "Stanford Law Review" from 1970 to 1972 and as president of the Stanford Law Association in 1971. He also earned a Certificate in Criminal Law from Stanford Law School in 1970 and was admitted to the California Bar in 1972.\n\nIn 1976, Sklar was appointed Deputy District Attorney of Santa Barbara County, California. From 1978 to 1979, Sklar was a Senior Trial Attorney at the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice, where he prosecuted criminal civil rights violations in over twenty cases. From 1979 to 1980, he was a Staff Counsel for the Office of Legal Counsel of the U.S. Department of Justice, serving as a legal advisor to the White House and the National Security Council.\n\nIn 1980, Sklar left the federal government and entered private law practice in Los Angeles, California, working in a law firm for six years, specializing in civil and criminal appeals in state and federal courts. In 1986, Sklar founded his own law firm, Phil F. Sklar & Associates, specializing in criminal defense and civil rights litigation. In the early 1990s, Sklar formed the first all-fan band, Fandalism, which released an album called "We Are All Fandalone." In the late 1990s, Sklar taught courses on the First Amendment at Loyola Law School, Los Angeles, California. He also worked with First Amendment attorney Ephraim Margolin to fight the classification of rap music as "obscene."\n\nIn 2010, Sklar became the manager of the estate of Merle Haggard, filing over 1,500 copyrighted songs in Haggard's name.\n\nIn 1971, Sklar married his first wife, Kathleen Anne Bush, who was also a Stanford Law graduate and worked as a corporate lawyer. The two were married until her death in 1992, after a long illness.\n\nIn 1999, Sklar married his second wife, Elizabeth Diane Hughes, who was previously married to the late Tommy Hughes of Tompall and the short-lived Hughes & Hughes, later Hughes Entertainment, a Nashville-based record label, for which she was an executive. The two currently reside in Santa Barbara, California.\n\nPhil Sklar is the father of Philanthropy Journalist David Sklar.\n\n