"The debut novel from the author of And Then There Were None (And Then There Were None, etc.).\n\nThis one’s about a white female schoolteacher named Max who flees to the fictional town of Monroe in Tennessee, along with her 13-year-old daughter, after the father of her unborn child, a black male, is murdered. The early chapters of the book feature a flashback in which Max, who comes from a privileged background and is a graduate of the elite New York school Vassar, meets up with a variety of black female college students, with whom she is convinced she has a lot in common. When she meets Bigger Thomas, the young black man she soon falls in love with, the similarities end. This is not to say that their shared class status does not matter—but one can’t help wondering why Max’s liberal upbringing should be of less relevance to her education and thinking than her race and gender. When she finds herself pregnant, she goes to her parents for support and finds only disapproval. Her decision to marry Bigger is met with bewilderment, but she dismisses any further thoughts about her situation until her husband is accused of murder. She decides to leave Chicago and go home to Mississippi, where she’ll have the support of her parents, who know she’s pregnant and are willing to pay for her to keep the baby. But when she arrives in Monroe, she is shocked to find her mother cold and disapproving and her father distant. In time, she goes to work as a teacher at a small black school, where she finds her first real sense of community. She doesn’t see Bigger again for many years, and when she does, she is pleased to discover that he has become a successful businessman. Their meeting is bittersweet, and Max, whose daughter is now a young woman, decides to live her life on her own terms. The author clearly knows how to tell a story, and she’s taken a powerful idea and created a great deal of drama around it. But the characters are so relentlessly stereotyped that the novel is ultimately less convincing as social commentary than it might have been. The narrative moves between past and present, with little internal consistency. But what this does do is make the book hard to read, as the present-day characters, who feel unrealistically unconnected to the narrative context, dominate.\n\nAn intriguing and thought-provoking book, though not an entirely satisfying one.