On its surface, Joseph Mallozzi's Dark Matter is a story about the crew of the spaceship Raza, who are awakened from stasis with no memories of who they are or how they got on board. But at its core, it's a story about people with real emotions and real experiences. A series of Dark Matter shorts focusing on one or two of the main cast members premieres today on Syfy. Mallozzi spoke with SYFY WIRE about why he loves these vignettes and what to expect in season three.\n\nWhat's your overall approach to the characters on this show? What's your thinking behind the way the actors are playing them?\n\nThe biggest thing was that we had six one-hour episodes to introduce the characters. And then a 13-episode order of the first season that gave us time to delve into the character's histories and their backstories. So by the time we got into season two, we were well into our stride in terms of the character dynamics.\n\nThat said, one of the key things about the show is that it is a character-driven drama first and foremost. These are very relatable people that we all interact with in our daily lives. The premise of the show is fantastical in nature, but it's the characters who bring it all home. The stories have to be compelling and the characters have to be interesting, otherwise it doesn't really matter what the premise is.\n\nWhy are you so interested in vignettes about the characters?\n\nI've always been a huge fan of storytelling within the storytelling. It goes all the way back to my time on Stargate. One of the best things we did there was in the episode "Window of Opportunity," in which we flash back to Jonas's past, and we see his wife and children as part of a mining colony that's been attacked by the Goa'uld. And then we flash forward to his present and what's left of the Goa'uld is taking him out to be executed. And we've established his backstory and how it led to this moment.\n\nIt was a perfect blend of flashback storytelling with the present day. It worked beautifully. And then there was another episode, "Meridian," in which we get a flashback from Daniel Jackson's perspective of how he became a Stargate team member. It gave us a real insight into who Daniel Jackson was, as a person, and how he came to be involved with the Stargate program. And it was beautifully written by [Joseph Mallozzi].\n\nWhat's the storytelling advantage of these character-focused moments?\n\nThat's a great question. There are so many things that you can explore in a character-focused moment. For instance, in season one of Dark Matter, Episode 207 is called "All the Time in the World." It's a story about Two's past, and her being a bit of a criminal, and stealing things for a living. And how her and Ryo Ishida, whom we saw in episode two, were involved in the death of a third party who happens to be their boss. And how it led to them ending up on the Raza in the first place.\n\nWe got to see Two as a character, and the motivations behind her actions. There's the potential for growth in that moment, because we realize that she was forced into this life by someone who held her as a captive. And she has an opportunity, when she returns to the past and saves her boss' life, to change her past and potentially change the events that brought her and Ryo to the Raza. And in so doing, she is able to help herself get a second chance.\n\nWhat are some of the advantages of a vignette over a more direct flashback?\n\nI guess the best way to explain this is with an example. In season two of Dark Matter, we were doing this episode called "Welcome To the Revolution," which introduced us to Devon and his girlfriend Nyx, and their backstory. We were at the point in the story where we needed to introduce these characters and we had a lot of story to tell. So instead of doing a traditional flashback in which we would focus on one or the other, we chose to introduce them both in a flashback that combined their stories.\n\nIt gave us an opportunity to show two characters interacting with each other. And also to have them talk about each other and their histories. In terms of storytelling, it's more efficient. You get to tell a lot more story with just one character.\n\nIs it harder or easier to write a vignette than it is to write a regular episode?\n\nIf it's all about the action, then it's easier. But then the challenge is figuring out how to balance it all. Because, you don't want the vignette to be all about talking heads. You want to have some interesting visuals in there, some interesting production design, some interesting set pieces. So in that regard, it's a bit of a challenge. But the fact that we have this fantastic team of directors and VFX artists helps make that process easier.\n\nIs there a particular vignette you're particularly proud of?\n\nThis is one of my favorite episodes. In season one, Episode 210 is called "We Were Family," and it's about Five and Six. It was something that we had planned from day one. And then the second season came along and we were coming off the"