Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story (マリオ&ルイージRPG ボスの肉球) is a role-playing video game in the Mario & Luigi series, developed by AlphaDream for the Nintendo DS. It was published by Nintendo and was released in Japan on January 29, 2009, in North America on January 12, 2010, in Australia on February 11, 2010 and in Europe on February 19, 2010. A remake, titled Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, was released in 2019 for the Nintendo 3DS as a 3D remake.[4] The story revolves around Bowser, who is knocked unconscious and awakens to find himself kidnapped by the mysterious Vacuum Mushroom Fiasco.[5] In the process of searching for Bowser, Mario and Luigi become absorbed into his body, causing them to travel through his body to retrieve the cure.[5]\n\nThe game utilizes the Nintendo DS's dual screens to present battles with a top-down view on the bottom screen and the area players are in on the top screen. While traveling through Bowser's body, the players solve puzzles and fight enemies, with Mario and Luigi sharing an HP bar.[5] The game was positively received by critics, who praised the story and humor, and was a commercial success, selling over 2 million copies worldwide by May 2010.[6]\n\nGameplay [ edit ]\n\nMario and Luigi travel through Bowser's body solving puzzles.\n\nThe game has traditional role-playing video game gameplay with an overworld-style map on which the player navigates. Bowser's body is shown in the top screen, with the touch screen presenting an isometric view of the area that Mario and Luigi are exploring. Battles take place on the top screen, with the touch screen showing a close-up of the characters, allowing the player to touch the stylus to perform attacks.[7] Mario and Luigi can choose commands from a list of action commands in order to fight enemies; for example, a coin can be thrown at an enemy, or a hammer can be used to hit them. These abilities can be leveled up for increased power and range.[5] Mario and Luigi share an HP meter, which decreases if one is hit; after a character is hit, he loses the ability to jump and dodge, and the player must direct him to an area that restores health.[5] HP is restored by collecting crystals dropped by enemies, as well as by getting hit by a heart dropped by a defeated ally, though if both Mario and Luigi's HP reaches 0, the game ends.[5]\n\nThe story progresses through minigames and puzzle-solving. Bowser can find and eat special Mushrooms that grant the player special powers for a limited time; for example, the Vacuum Mushroom allows Bowser to inhale enemies.[5] These powers are required to complete some puzzles; for example, the Vacuum Mushroom is used to clear away fog that is obscuring the player's view, while the Spring Mushroom allows Bowser to reach high areas.[5] Throughout the game, the player will need to use Bowser to participate in minigames; for example, the Microgames minigame, which consists of quick minigames that award players coins.[8] The coins collected from these minigames are then used to buy things such as new attacks and life restoration items from the in-game shop.[9] Some of these minigames involve using the microphone of the Nintendo DS.[10] The player can also train Goombas and Troopas in the "Goomba Town" area, in which they become stronger and sometimes find better treasure when defeated in battle.[5]\n\nPlot [ edit ]\n\nPrincess Peach writes a letter to Mario and Luigi, who are relaxing at home with Princess Peach and Toadsworth, and encloses a mysterious map of a faraway land. Mario, Luigi, and Toadsworth decide to go on an adventure to the land on the map, which is the Beanbean Kingdom. Meanwhile, Princess Peach's voice actor, Pianta, is recording a song at Sunshine Coliseum when she is kidnapped by a talking, dog-like tree named Giogio, along with her bodyguards, Mack and Bowletta. Princess Peach is dragged into a whirlpool that was created by the tree, and is transported to the Beanbean Kingdom.\n\nMario and Luigi's ship is suddenly sucked into the whirlpool, sending them and the ship falling into the Beanbean Kingdom, right in front of the tree. The tree informs Mario and Luigi that he had kidnapped Princess Peach to make her his wife, but she managed to escape. After Mario and Luigi confront the tree, they eventually meet Bowser, who had been sleeping in the nearby Mushroom Kingdom until the tree awoke him. Bowser is attacked by the tree and swallowed by him, sending Mario, Luigi, and the ship plummeting to the ground. Mario and Luigi survive the crash, but the ship is destroyed, forcing them to travel through the body of the tree and search for a way to defeat the tree. They soon find Bowser, who is running away from the tree, and help him escape, using a vacuum device built by the Stromboli Brothers.\n\nThe three set off to find the tree's weakness. The tree attempts to stop them by creating multiple Peach-bots to trick Mario and Luigi, but they defeat all of them. They then encounter Prince Peasley, who, after being defeated in battle, informs them that they must find the Great Fiery, Mushbert, to learn about the tree's weakness. After fighting their way through Fungitown, they find Mushbert, who reveals that the tree is vulnerable when attacked from within. The group then battles Queen Bean, and heads to the Starch Factory to attempt to gain access to the tree's brain. However, they find that they need a disguise to enter, so they head to Joke's End to buy disguises.\n\nBowser and the Mario Bros. after reaching the tree's brain\n\nAt the Joke's End shop, they are unable to find any disguises. Mario finds a strange, small, one-eyed creature named Fawful, who informs the group that they must meet his master, the "Dark Mage" Cackletta. Bowser immediately hates Fawful, and attacks him. Mario, Luigi, and Bowser eventually manage to defeat Fawful, who is crushed by a rock. While searching for Cackletta, they find an area in which Bowser is needed to progress; in the area, they encounter Prince Peasley, who has been driven insane by Cackletta's magic. After defeating him, Bowser gains the ability to become Giga-Bowser by eating a Vacuum Shroom. The group heads to Chucklehuck Woods to find Cackletta, but is unable to find her.\n\nMario and Luigi meet Cackletta, disguised as a fortune teller named Sybil. She takes the brothers to the part of Bowser's brain where the tree resides. There, they find Princess Peach, who was saved by Cackletta earlier. Bowser then attempts to protect Peach, but is knocked unconscious by Cackletta. Cackletta uses her magic to turn Luigi into a zombie; the transformation is reverted when Mario gives Luigi a Vitamins. Cackletta then attacks Mario with a magical spell that is unleashed from a machine she has. Bowser is revived by Princess Peach, and she and Bowser travel with Mario and Luigi to confront Cackletta. Bowser, Mario, and Luigi battle Cackletta and her assistant, Fawful, and defeat them. Bowser then swallows Cackletta, but Cackletta attacks Mario and Luigi with a spell while still inside Bowser. The brothers are turned into babies. Peach, shocked at seeing Bowser unconscious after the attack, approaches him. Bowser wakes up and attempts to kidnap Peach again, but then he sees that Mario and Luigi are no longer themselves, and changes his mind. He agrees to help the brothers defeat the tree.\n\nThe group heads to the tree's brain, where they discover that it is guarded by Broggy. After they defeat Broggy, the group enters the tree's brain and begins battling the tree's internal organs. Bowser starts destroying the tree from the inside by consuming the Vacuum Shroom he had earlier. After the group finds Princess Peach, they battle Cackletta and Fawful again, and defeat them. The brothers revert to their adult selves, and Mario and Luigi celebrate by dancing and singing. However, the celebration is interrupted by a sudden attack from the tree, and everyone falls to the ground. Bowser appears to be unconscious, and Mario and Luigi are turned into babies again. Princess Peach is missing, and a now-insane Prince Peasley kidnaps her. The three then discover that the tree is attempting to destroy Beanbean Castle Town.\n\nThe brothers, with the help of Peasley and Peach, battle the tree. After defeating the tree, Peach and Bowser leave the area to check on the castle. Mario and Luigi chase after Cackletta and Fawful, who have returned to the castle ruins. They fight Cackletta and Fawful once more and defeat them. Cackletta then revives Bowletta with her magic, who, while wearing a dark helmet, attacks the brothers. After Bowletta's defeat, the brothers learn that Cackletta has revived Queen Bean. Cackletta and Bowletta then fuse with the Queen, becoming the Beanstar. Mario and Luigi battle the beanstalk, and manage to destroy it by attacking the part of the Beanstar that contains Cackletta and Bowletta. The Beanstar falls to the ground and lands on Queen Bean, destroying the Beanstar and killing Queen Bean.\n\nAfter defeating Cackletta and Bowletta, Bowser goes to the castle, and