Although we may not always see our value and the beauty within, there are a few things that will always catch our attention. Sometimes it is just someone being real and authentic, not faking it. It could be just that they are not always perfect but are so honest about it. It can also be that they have real insecurities but embrace them and work on them. It could be that they are not the “cool kid” but they are honest and cool. It can also be that they are brave and strong enough to talk about things that they have been through.\n\nGrowing up, I was always really insecure. I was a pretty shy, quiet kid and very self-conscious. Although I was insecure and was not confident, I wanted to change and was not going to let it define me. I am a teenager now and have grown to love myself. I am still working on my confidence, but it is a work in progress. I used to be very self-conscious about my nose and my smile, but I’m okay with it now. I realized that even though people make fun of me for it, that doesn’t mean that I have to be insecure about it. Now, I embrace the fact that I have a different nose, and I’m okay with it. I am also okay with my smile, even though people think I have a “nerd” smile, because it makes me unique.\n\nWhen I think about celebrities, I think of the times that they have been able to grow through something and then talk about it. It’s okay if you are insecure. It’s okay if you are imperfect, because we all are. If you are honest and just be real about it, that’s when people will really gravitate towards you and be inspired by you. There is no such thing as being perfect or cool.\n\nHere are a few examples of celebrities who are amazing, imperfect people who are real and honest:\n\nMillie Bobby Brown (Stranger Things)\n\nMillie Bobby Brown has been open about how she is an introvert and was not always very confident. I love how she has opened up about her insecurities and her work ethic. She has not been afraid to be imperfect and honest about it. She is not afraid to talk about her struggles, which I think is amazing. I think it is so important to talk about things and not be afraid of being imperfect.\n\nGigi Gorgeous (YouTube)\n\nGigi Gorgeous is an amazing, brave and strong person. I know that there are so many transgender people who struggle, and she has not been afraid to be honest about her story. She is not perfect and has made mistakes. But, she is not afraid to be imperfect, which I think is amazing.\n\nHayley Williams (Paramore)\n\nHayley Williams is an amazing artist who is so honest and real. She is not afraid to be imperfect, which I think is amazing. She is also honest about her anxiety and other insecurities. She is not afraid to be open about the fact that she has been bullied.\n\nJoey Graceffa (YouTube)\n\nJoey Graceffa is also another brave and honest person. He is not afraid to talk about his struggles, his mental health and other things. He has also been able to talk about how he has had to face bullying. He is brave and honest and has not been afraid to talk about it, which I think is so important.\n\nIn conclusion, I think it is so important that we talk about things, because we are not perfect. I think it is also so important to be brave and strong and be honest and open about it. People gravitate towards people who are real and honest, because they are not afraid to be imperfect. I think that it is also important to know your worth and to be kind to yourself, because we are all beautiful in our own way.