"Much of the history of the U.S. Department of the Interior and its predecessor agencies is presented in a new exhibit at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History (NMNH). "In the Nation's Service: 150 Years of the U.S. Department of the Interior" (March 27, 2010 – September 3, 2012) tells the story of a department charged with overseeing a complex web of activities such as wildlife and fish management, national parks, and mining, oil and gas leasing. The exhibit, located in the museum's West Hall of American Indians, tells the story of how Congress established the Department of the Interior in 1849 to take control of the huge amounts of federal land being acquired in the young country. It also showcases the many changes the department has undergone over the years.\n\nThe National Museum of Natural History, part of the Smithsonian Institution, holds the world's largest collection of natural history specimens and human artifacts. Over the years, the museum has produced a number of temporary and permanent exhibits that highlight different aspects of its collections. Some of the more famous exhibits have included the Apollo 16 Command Module, the George Washington Exhibit Hall (first opened in 1923), and the Hall of North American Forests (first opened in 1993).\n\nThe museum's current "In the Nation's Service: 150 Years of the U.S. Department of the Interior" exhibit was created in association with the National Museum of the American Indian, the Minerals Management Service, the U.S. Geological Survey, the Bureau of Land Management, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. It celebrates the department's past, present, and future with photos, maps, and text highlighting many of the historic events that have shaped the department and its predecessors over the last 150 years. The exhibit also includes the "Interior Department at a Glance," which provides a comprehensive view of the department's numerous responsibilities.\n\nThis exhibit replaces "Our Land," a temporary exhibit which ran from February 2009 through February 2010. The new exhibit focuses on the Department of the Interior's role in managing public lands and resources, along with its historical precedents.\n\nImage courtesy of flickr user cveiga\n\nAny views or opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not reflect those of ActionHub. Comments on this article reflect the sole opinions of their writers.