Permaculture guru Bill Mollison\n\nWith the very little support they had at the time, Bill and others set up the first demonstration site. On a previously weedy area of land, they set out apple trees, sweetcorn, rows of potatoes and composted animal manure. They then connected the trees to the ground with a web of vegetable plants and built dams and swales in the contours. For food they relied on ducks, chickens and pigs that ran wild and on what they could harvest from the landscape around them. The land was clear of weeds and, most importantly, they had the harvest to prove it worked.\n\nThe Moreton Bay fig tree.\n\nThe story goes that Bill Mollison was walking along a bush track in 1975 when he saw an old Moreton Bay fig tree. He was so impressed by it that he decided to take a picture of it, even though it was so common it was not considered worthy of conservation. Not long after, Bill and his family had to leave the country to avoid deportation. They took the photo of the fig tree with them. When they returned to Tasmania six months later, their new land was ready and the government was more than willing to grant them visas.\n\nBut what had happened to the old Moreton Bay fig tree? It was in a terrible condition, with no leaves, no new growth and not much hope for the future. Bill and his family decided to try something out that they had seen in Borneo. They let nature take its course and stopped all other work on the tree. For two years they did nothing at all, just let the tree do what it needed to do. At the end of the two years, they took another look at the tree. This time, the tree had leaves, buds and, for the first time in its life, it produced figs.\n\nBill Mollison and the old Moreton Bay fig tree.\n\nBill Mollison saw in this experience that nature will always seek a balanced system, provided that the human race allows it to do so. In fact, one of the core principles of permaculture is that we must stop manipulating nature and let it find its own solutions. “As long as you are using people to control nature, you are on a hiding to nothing,” Bill says. “We are all in the business of returning land to its native state.”\n\nThe outcome of Bill’s tree is very different"