By Cody Wilcox\n\nAll winning streaks come to an end, even one as long as John Calipari’s unbeaten run as a head coach in the NCAA Tournament. That’s exactly what happened to Kentucky’s basketball program this past Saturday as the Wildcats were upset by the Arkansas Razorbacks, 78-72, in the SEC Tournament championship game. After winning the Big 12 Tournament and the SEC Tournament the Wildcats had a firm grip on the overall No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament and a spot in the Final Four was almost guaranteed.\n\nWith all of the talk about how Kentucky would make a run for a perfect season, one very important fact was left out of the conversation. That is, the Kentucky Wildcats have been a very average defensive team all year.\n\nIn fact, they have ranked outside of the top-25 in defensive efficiency in each of the last three seasons. Their defensive efficiency this season ranks 47th in the country, an improvement from the previous two seasons but certainly not good enough to go far in the NCAA Tournament. If their defense is not improved in the NCAA Tournament, they could easily be upset again and sent home earlier than most had expected.\n\nNot only was the lack of defense frustrating to watch, but it also exposed the flaws in this team. Just as their defensive ability is being overlooked, the flaws in the offense are also being glossed over.\n\nDespite being led by freshman center Willie Cauley-Stein, the Wildcats do not have a rim-protector. They were fourth in the SEC in blocks and their opponents averaged more attempts at the rim than their opponents. Their big men had trouble defending inside and that allowed teams to force their guards into situations where they needed to score against a tough defense.\n\nDespite having a solid starting five, the reserves did not contribute. Most of the minutes off the bench were played by the inexperienced Ryan Harrow and Jarrod Polson. These two have a combined total of 35 games played between them.\n\nDespite what the team lacks, they still have many reasons to be optimistic about the upcoming NCAA Tournament. Their offense has been very good and that has carried them throughout the season. They have the talent to win games against any team and have proved that by defeating multiple top-10 opponents this season.\n\nThe most glaring weakness on this team is the lack of defense. If they can find a way to fix that, this team has the potential to make a deep run into the NCAA Tournament. If they can not, then there are bound to be a few more losses along the way and an early end to the season for the Kentucky Wildcats.