Here we go again.\n\nA couple of weeks ago, I wrote a piece about my fear of the upcoming NFL season. My argument was essentially that the Super Bowl has been set up for a possible matchup between two of the greatest quarterbacks of all time in Peyton Manning and Tom Brady, and since neither of those guys will be participating in the playoffs, the Super Bowl will lose much of its luster.\n\nThe post was titled, “Why the NFL is a failure this season,” and it was the first post I ever wrote for this site. Now, I’m back again, and this time, I’m not trying to be negative at all.\n\nNot in the least.\n\nI am simply using the same outline as before to explain how I think the NFL has gotten it right this season, from start to finish. It’s simply that there are some unique circumstances surrounding the upcoming season that make it much better than usual.\n\nHere’s the original post, if you missed it.\n\nHere’s my new one.\n\nHow the NFL Is Doing It Right\n\n“What is right is always on the side of the minority, and the minority is always stronger than the majority.” — Oscar Wilde\n\nThe NFL, as an organization, has made some questionable decisions this season. A prime example of this is the handling of the Bountygate scandal, where the Saints organization was accused of offering cash incentives for vicious hits. The NFL should have punished the organization much more harshly, but they ended up settling for an ill-advised one-year suspension of head coach Sean Payton, a six-game suspension for Saints’ defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, and the loss of second-round draft picks in 2013 and 2014. This punishment was, in my opinion, much too light for such a heinous act, but it seems as though the league is finally cracking down on violent, illegal play.\n\nI’m sure you’ve heard the term “Deflategate” going around lately. As I’m sure you know, this is a slang term for the controversy surrounding the pressure in the footballs used during the AFC Championship game between the Patriots and Colts. The NFL is now investigating this issue to determine whether or not the Patriots tampered with the footballs, or if they were simply deflated by other means. If they did indeed tamper with the balls, it’s possible that the Patriots could be stripped of the win, and lose draft picks as well.\n\nThese are just two examples of the NFL doing something wrong this season, but they are both minor, compared to all the things they have done right. For instance, this is the first season since 1970 that has featured a team that had gone undefeated for the season. The league has never had a repeat champion since the NFL-AFL merger in 1970, and this season, that has already been changed. The Broncos have won the Super Bowl, so they have now become the first team to ever repeat as champs.\n\nAnother reason why the NFL has done it right this season is that it has followed the trend of unpredictability. For instance, there is a common misconception that the AFC is a better conference than the NFC, and that it’s easier to win games in the AFC than in the NFC. However, this season, this was not the case. The NFC was the conference with the most wins, and of the five teams with the best records, three of them were NFC teams. It’s safe to say that the NFC was the better conference this season.\n\nIt seems as though the NFL has followed the trend of unpredictability, not only by having a weaker conference beat a stronger conference (see the Broncos vs. the Panthers), but also by allowing lesser teams to rise to the top. The best example of this is the Kansas City Chiefs. As I am sure you know, the Chiefs are the only team in NFL history to start a season 9-0, and then finish it 1-5. They ended up with the worst record in the AFC West, and they didn’t even win a single divisional game. This unpredictability is also evidenced by the fact that the Patriots were not one of the teams to make it to the playoffs.\n\nAnother reason why the NFL has done it right this season is the overall unpredictability of the playoffs. When looking at this season’s playoffs, there are many different storylines, and each of them is interesting to look at. The three wild card teams in the NFC all have very good quarterbacks. The two divisional games have three great quarterbacks. The three conference championship games have one of the greatest quarterbacks ever, Peyton Manning, and two of the greatest quarterbacks ever, Tom Brady and Aaron Rodgers.\n\nWhile the Super Bowl is more predictable, there are still plenty of storylines in that game as well. Peyton Manning has been the story of the season. He is on track to become the most prolific quarterback in NFL history, and it would be great for him to get his second Super Bowl title. The last time he won a Super Bowl, the NFL was not as popular as it is now, and it would be a good way to end his career. The other storyline is the attempt by Seattle to get back to the Super Bowl. As I wrote earlier, the Super Bowl will be more interesting this season if the Seahawks and Broncos are playing in it, because both teams have very good quarterbacks.\n\nHow could you not be excited about a game that will have three of the top ten quarterbacks in the NFL, and possibly the greatest quarterback of all time?\n\nIn addition to these storylines, there are plenty of other things that make the NFL’s current situation look better. The most obvious one is that Peyton Manning’s career is at an end. It’s"