Sarah Williams (social worker)\n\nSarah "Sally" Williams (1880 – April 23, 1951) was an American social worker. Williams established herself as an activist, fighting for women's suffrage, juvenile delinquency, and public health. Williams was well known for her innovative and groundbreaking approaches to improving the quality of life for children, the public, and the underprivileged. Williams began working for the New York City Health Department in 1918, and in 1925 she became the director of the Bureau of Child Guidance. Williams was the only woman in the country with such a position at the time, and held the position until her death in 1951.\n\nSarah Williams was born in 1880 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the second child of James Williams, a grocer and later a dentist, and Ella Burt Williams. At age 10, she attended the Powelton Avenue School in Philadelphia, and by age 12 she had already decided that she wanted to be a teacher. At age 13, Williams attended the Girls' High School and excelled academically. She took part in school plays and oratorical contests, and upon graduation, Williams attended Swarthmore College in 1896. Williams majored in Greek and Latin and continued to study oratorical contests and plays. After graduating in 1900, Williams continued her education at Cornell University, where she studied American History and Economics. While studying at Cornell, Williams became a member of the college women's debating team, which would later become a hobby for her. Upon graduation, Williams pursued graduate studies at Columbia University, where she received her M.A. degree in Social Science in 1907. At Columbia, Williams received one of her most important honors, the Demorest Fellowship. After graduation, Williams decided to enter the field of social work.\n\nAfter receiving her Master's Degree, Williams began to work as a social worker in Philadelphia. While working in Philadelphia, Williams became interested in the idea of juvenile courts, and worked to improve them. Williams began traveling to study different models of juvenile courts and while in London, she visited the Infant Welfare and the Juvenile Probation Departments. While visiting a British Probation Home, Williams became interested in the training of child welfare workers. She returned to the United States and started a training program for juvenile probation officers in Philadelphia.\n\nIn 1911, Williams accepted a job as the chief social worker of the Infant Welfare Association of Philadelphia. In 1915, Williams moved to New York City and accepted a position as the executive secretary of the Child Labor Committee. Williams continued her work with juvenile delinqu"