"She wasn't a woman like any other. Even though she had her faults, she still stood out from the rest of the crowd. She had a history, a background and an experience that many people dreamt of having, yet only few ever got the opportunity. What most people didn't know was that she wasn't exactly the kind of person to brag about her past, even though she felt proud of it. It had been a dream for her, a little girl, to see the world and she'd seen it, all of it. The rich, the poor, the bright, the darkness, the weird, the strange, the beautiful and the ugly. She'd seen it all and it was magnificent, yet there was a reason why she had chosen to become a librarian, instead of something else.\n\n\n\nHer hair was long, silver and wavy and fell down her shoulders in a beautiful manner. Her blue eyes had seen so much, yet they still seemed to sparkle with life. Her voice was calm and soothing, a voice one could lean back and close their eyes to. One would never imagine her as a warrior, but in her past, she was just that. She'd fought many battles, killed many men and women and survived through it all. She had friends and she had enemies and she was proud of it. She was happy and she was content and she was satisfied with the life she'd lived, until she met him. They fell in love at first sight and it took some time, but she accepted it and decided to move forward.\n\n\n\nLife went by and as it did, they became closer and closer. They married and had children, which made her life complete. She couldn't have been happier, even though they all knew it was a big lie. A lie that no one told her, no one really wanted to see her get hurt. They had the best family they could possibly have and that's all that really mattered, right? They'd always been together, until the day he decided to go out and do some hunting. She didn't want him to go, but he promised her he'd be back soon and not to worry. That was, however, a lie, for she never saw him again. There were rumours, many rumours, but nothing was confirmed. Until she received a letter.\n\n\n\nA letter telling her he was dead and he would never come back. It hurt and it hurt her to the core, but what was done was done. She had to go on with her life and she did. She got married again, but he wasn't right. She found out he was cheating on her, but she stayed with him. That was until she decided that she'd had enough and divorced him. She'd left the country, left the world and found a place that was perfect for her, where she'd be happy and finally found peace. It was here that she got the news of her brother's death.\n\n\n\nHis wife was distraught and his children had gone missing. Her mother was ill and had taken a turn for the worse. There was a war and the whole country was about to crumble. She went to visit her mother and stayed there for the rest of her life, dying peacefully. She had seen a lot of things and she'd been through a lot, but there were still things she'd never done. She'd never married the man of her dreams and she'd never had the chance to tell him that she loved him. She lived a full life, though and she was happy about that, even if it hurt sometimes. Her past had played a big part in who she was and she never regretted any of it.\n\n\n\n