Next up in my Indie Haul of 2016, I have a sweet card game, Set.\n\nNow, I am not a big fan of card games. They are, for the most part, luck-based, and I am pretty boring, so unless I am playing something that has a lot of theme or interesting gameplay, I don’t find them very interesting. That is why this game was interesting to me. This is one of those games that the more I learn about it, the more interesting it gets. And to be fair, it isn’t really a game where luck is a major component.\n\nFirst, a bit about the gameplay. Set is a card game about finding sets of three cards. These sets come in four forms:\n\nOne of the four base shapes\n\nOne of the four colors\n\nOne of the four words\n\nTwo of the four different attributes (circle, triangle, square, cross)\n\nThe card comes in different colors, shapes, and symbols, but on each card, one attribute is in the foreground and two are in the background. This is a key element of the gameplay. It means that not only are you trying to find sets, but you have to sort through the cards to find the ones that match your sets, and there is only a single card that matches your sets.\n\nEach player starts the game with a hand of twelve cards, and three cards are dealt to the center of the table. Each player gets to see the three cards in the center, and these cards can be used as a part of your sets. You have to be careful here, because if you use one of the three cards from the center, you won’t get to keep it, and once all three have been used, they are replaced with three new cards. Each turn, you can pick up one card from the center or you can take the first card from your hand and play it in a set. You are never required to play a card from your hand, but once you pick up a card from the center, you can’t play a card from your hand. It is entirely possible to keep your first card and end your turn, which is an interesting element of the gameplay.\n\nOnce you have three cards in a set, you put them face-down in front of you. After that, you pick up the card you played and add it to your hand, then replace the center card with a new card. You continue until one player finds three sets, and that player wins the game.\n\nThe gameplay of this game is relatively simple and straightforward. I found it interesting that once you add the deck, the actual number of possible combinations goes way up. The game is deceptively easy, but the challenge is in finding the cards that you need.\n\nNow, one of the elements of this game that I was most impressed with is the artwork. The artwork is absolutely phenomenal, and there is a ton of it. I have no idea how much art this game has, but it is a lot. There are 64 cards in the game, and there is a ton of artwork on each card, with every card having four separate parts. The only issue that I had with the artwork is the text. It is a very small typeface and sometimes difficult to read. That, in addition to the fact that a lot of the cards have similar artwork, means that you need to look at a card before you play it to ensure that you have the card that you need. It is pretty easy to tell the difference between the cards once you know what you are looking for, but I still found myself second-guessing myself on some of the sets.\n\nOverall, this is a pretty cool game. I was initially surprised by the game, but it was easy to pick up and learn how to play. The artwork is absolutely stunning, but the only issue that I had with it was the small typeface. I would definitely recommend this game to anyone who enjoys card games and is looking for something different. I’m not sure that I would play this game again, but it was definitely worth the $15 I spent on it.\n\nAdvertisements