Packing my B-day party\n\nLisbon Street in Hoboken\n\nChocolatier Biscuit\n\nChocolatier Biscuit Menu\n\nThe inside of the Chocolatier Biscuit\n\nOoooooh! I love the chocolate creme pie!\n\nCoconut Cream Pie\n\nSalted Caramel Cookie\n\nI love all of these pies!\n\nChocolatier Biscuit Open Mic Night\n\nThe Chocolatier Biscuit is located on 1st street in Hoboken right across the street from New York Seltzer. It is a small store that seems to only have seating for about 15 people and is a bit cramped. The owners do not serve any alcohol, but you are allowed to bring your own and have it with your food. The store has been around for a while, but in the past year has added a weekend lunch menu. I came here for their Open Mic night on Thursday night. I found out about this Open Mic night from OpenMic.com . This website has a list of all the Open Mic nights around the world, which is cool because I go to a lot of them in NYC. There are three things that make me fall in love with a store, yummy chocolates, yummy food, and a community vibe. This store has two of those things. When you walk into this store you instantly get a chocolate vibe. The store has a plethora of chocolate options, which are amazing, and they even have a chocolate museum (open only for select times). I just ordered a few chocolate covered truffles and some chocolates for my family for Christmas.The owner of the store, Bruce, came to talk to us about his store, and the Open Mic. I asked him what is their favorite pie. He said it is the coconut cream pie, which they make fresh daily, so it is the best one. I also asked him why they don't serve alcohol. He told me that his wife does not like alcohol, and since they have three kids, they have to make sure to keep it G rated. This is cool since I am the same way. I like having fun with my friends, but I don't want my children exposed to things they shouldn't be exposed to.The Open Mic is run by Bruce's daughter Liz. She has done a great job at getting people to come to this event. I was surprised that this place was packed when I came. Usually Open Mic nights I go to are either dead, or have a small turnout. When I went to the Open Mic at Riverview Tavern , I was the only person there. That night Bruce was performing. He was singing Christmas songs with his guitar. He is a very talented musician. He can sing, and play the guitar, and is a great songwriter. He played a lot of good Christmas songs, but did not play anything I knew. Some people I know came by and I talked to them for a bit, while listening to Bruce play. I was not planning on staying long since I have been to a lot of Open Mic nights, but after a while, I was having so much fun listening to the people performing, that I decided to stay. I also talked to Liz, and Bruce's wife about the food and store.Bruce and Liz had a table set up with various pies and cakes to try. There were over 20 pies and cakes to try. I really wanted to try them all, but I was saving myself for a special birthday celebration later that night.I got to try some of their dessert plates. They had vanilla bean cake, orange cake, apple pie, and cream cheese squares. I really liked their vanilla bean cake. It was moist, and not dry like other vanilla cakes I have had. The cake had a vanilla flavor, but was not over powering. The orange cake had an orange flavor that was not over powering either. I really liked this cake as well. I am not sure which one I liked the best. I am also not sure which cake was made at the store, and which was not. All of their desserts looked amazing!The music that night was great! There was a lot of talent. Everyone was amazing, and I wish I had taken some pictures. I was too busy listening and enjoying myself. One person, Tom, stood out to me. He had a great voice, and his rendition of I just called to say I love you was a great choice. I also loved when he did a song with a bit of a rock vibe to it. He has great range, and is an amazing performer.After listening to the performers, it was time to go. I was very full and the pie was just too much to handle. Liz came by and asked if I wanted to have another piece of pie. I said yes and took home a piece of their chocolate creme pie, and a slice of the coconut cream pie. Their chocolate pie was amazing. It was rich and moist and tasted just like a Hershey's chocolate bar. They only had one slice of the coconut cream pie left, so I took it home. It was also amazing. It was so creamy and tasted like coconut. I don't even like coconut, but this pie was so good! It had a bit of a gelatin texture to it. This was one of the best pies I have ever had. I really love all of the pies I had here, and will be back for more. I also want to try their chocolate covered brownies, chocolate covered strawberries, and their brownies.This store has amazing food and desserts, and has a great vibe. I really enjoyed my time here and look forward to returning! I hope you enjoy your time here as well! I would love to hear from you! Please send me a message or comment on this post.