For some time, before my eyes the image of the war, similar to a computer game, with special vehicles. I saw that two alliances were in mortal combat and the planes fought in the sky, and on the ground fierce battles of armored vehicles. When I asked what's going on, and how many, people laughed and did not understand.\n\n\n\nSeveral times I dreamed about wars and conflicts, in which people are killed. I watched the film "Exodus" with the images of the first world war and woke up sobbing. At night I often had a dream, which I again lived a drama, as if in real life. I always dream of the night, even though sometimes a dream I've been able to predict. I'm often asleep in the house that looks different from real. One of the main topics of my dreams are past life and astral, I remember them very well, and not remember the life of the day.\n\n\n\nLast dream (last dream was in 2005)\n\n\n\nMy dream was a war. At this time, I was a military intelligence officer, I have been one before. At the beginning of the dream we all lived a day and continued to work as usual. Then there was a powerful attack on our position, where I worked, and the building was destroyed. After this I was lying on the floor of a room, covered with debris and watched the battle, which raged in the street, along which I lay. I watched how an armored vehicle, came to me and moved away the debris from me. A man who sat behind the wheel and fired machine guns. As he saw that I am alive, he called me out of the rubble and drove away. Then we got to an uninhabited village, where he showed me the headquarters of his unit, which is also in this village. After this, I saw the other people, some of them were from my unit and we were discussing our plans. Then we went to a meeting with the commander of the alliance in which we were, and we asked him how to defend against attacks, which took us by surprise. The commander told us that he did not want to talk to us and we had to go back to work. Then I went back to work with people from my unit and discussed with them. Then we went back to the place where we were before. Here we began to dig in the ground. We hid in the holes and were waiting for the next attack. The next attack came, this time the enemies were even more numerous. We were armed only with a small hand-held guns, but we tried to defend ourselves. During the fight we were trying to dig a new shelter, to hide there, but the enemy has seen us and came closer. We had to get into the holes, which we dug earlier. Soon the enemy has found us, he has dropped some kind of incendiary bombs and we were forced to hide. In the holes were many people, but not all, but some people were killed. The attack ended and I was still alive. Soon there was another attack, the enemy was everywhere. We could not shoot at the enemy, because there were many people in the ground. After some time there was an explosion of the ground and it turned out that we had a secret base in the ground, where there were all the weapons and ammunition. When I realized this, I was surprised. The enemy noticed that we have disappeared from the surface, but the path to the base was still open. We began to shoot, but we were almost powerless. I sat in the house and decided to commit suicide with a hand grenade. I thought about it for a long time and even pulled the pin, but at this time I woke up. The dream was so powerful, that when I woke up, I immediately felt as if it all had happened. When I woke up, my head hurt. I checked the hands, but I didn't feel any strange things. I wondered if I had come to the afterlife, but no, when I touched my head I felt my fingers and it all seemed real.