"Former Arizona Sen. John McCain died after a yearlong battle with brain cancer.\n\nMy fellow Republicans, John McCain was a true American hero. https://t.co/YlNEJ2KRAS — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) August 26, 2018\n\nArizona Sen. John McCain, the maverick Republican whose war record and outspokenness against abuses of power made him an American icon, died on Saturday. He was 81.In a statement, McCain’s office said he died at 4:28 pm local time at the family’s home in Arizona surrounded by family members. The cause of death was not immediately known.The former Navy pilot, who was imprisoned and tortured during the Vietnam War, rose to the top of American politics after emerging as a prominent critic of President Donald Trump.An upstart presidential bid in 2000 did not succeed but after he won the Republican nomination in 2008, he lost to Democrat Barack Obama.Despite the loss, his image soared and he emerged as one of the most influential members of the Senate, willing to work with Democrats on issues like campaign finance reform.By the time he ran for president again in 2016, he seemed like a throwback to a bygone era of civility and bipartisanship. McCain ran against Obama again in 2008.He continued to play a pivotal role in American politics, becoming chairman of the powerful Senate Armed Services Committee after the Republicans regained control of the Senate in 2015.McCain in the past had been a thorn in the side of Republican presidents — George W. Bush and Trump.He was also well known for reaching across the aisle.He took a secret trip to visit Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad during the early years of the country’s civil war, and was one of the final Republicans to speak with the president before his firing last year.He was a long-time critic of the U.S. use of torture against detainees.He held out against Republicans’ efforts to dismantle Obama’s signature healthcare legislation and refused to support the Graham-Cassidy bill last year.He was a harsh critic of Russia, and one of the earliest supporters of sanctions against Russian officials. He played a role in seeking to keep the United States from launching a pre-emptive attack against North Korea in the face of its nuclear provocations.McCain was one of the first Republicans to support Trump’s presidential campaign in 2016. But when the “Access Hollywood” tape emerged, he withdrew his support, and famously said in his 2017 memoir “The Restless Wave,” “I do not know how I could have spoken so disrespectfully about the commander in chief of the Armed Forces.”He also repeatedly denounced what he called Trump’s “cheap rhetoric and insults” against U.S. allies, and after Trump’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in July 2018, called it a “tragic mistake.” He was one of the loudest Republican voices criticizing the president for his performance at a summit with Putin in Helsinki.Trump mocked him as “a clown,” and even at the end of his life, he was still a target for the president, who reportedly resisted hosting a state funeral.On Saturday, Trump said he sent his “deepest sympathies and respect” to McCain’s family.“The nation mourns the loss of a great American patriot, a statesman who put his country first and enriched this nation every day he served.”Former President Barack Obama called him a “giant of American politics,” and his one-time opponent in the 2008 presidential race said he was “a man of deep conviction and a patriot of the highest order.”Presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vermont, called McCain “an American hero” on Twitter.McCain’s funeral service will be held at the Washington National Cathedral and the ceremony will include eulogies from former President George W. Bush, former President Barack Obama, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and former Sen. Joe Lieberman, the former vice-presidential candidate who was a close friend.After the service, he will be buried in Annapolis, Md., at the U.S. Naval Academy.McCain was born at a naval station in the Panama Canal Zone, where his father was stationed. After his father’s career in the Navy, the family settled in the Arizona desert, where he attended high school.McCain studied at the Naval Academy and became a pilot in the Navy, serving on a ship that was shot down in Vietnam. He spent five-and-a-half years in captivity, which included torture, before he was released in 1973.McCain returned to the U.S. and was assigned to the Senate as a liaison to the Navy. He became a member of the House of Representatives in 1983 and eventually the chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce.During his 2008 presidential bid, he secured the GOP nomination in the face of much skepticism. At a dinner in 2008, then-Sen. Barack Obama joked that after losing to Obama, McCain would be on a beach sipping a drink with “an umbrella in it.”The Republican-led Senate, which was much closer to McCain than to the president, overwhelmingly passed a resolution earlier this year that censured Trump for his “bigoted and racist” remarks about four members of Congress.In his memoir, McCain said that he regretted that his choice of Sarah Palin as a running mate did not propel him to the White House. He said he made the choice based on who he thought could become president, but that was wrong.\n\nJoin Jerusalem Post Premium Plus now for just $5 and upgrade your experience with an ads-free website and exclusive content. Click here>>\n\n\n\n