the intractable issue of euthanasia\n\nRecent Examples on the Web\n\nThis is a good moment to highlight the intractable problem of lagging political reform in Myanmar. David Lague, WSJ, "Myanmar’s Democracy Movement Is Fading," 21 June 2018\n\nThis is particularly true in debates over intractable problems, like how to maintain and improve Medicare and Social Security for the long term. Tom Avril, Philly.com, "A government shutdown is a failure for everyone involved," 19 Jan. 2018\n\nThe team found that the early injections were successful at clearing the amyloid plaques, a hallmark of the disease, and that in mice injected at an earlier stage of the disease, the vaccine eliminated almost all amyloid plaques that formed over the following two months. Allison Barrie, Fox News, "Sip, gulp, shot: Scientists develop blood test to detect Alzheimer's in 5 minutes," 8 Aug. 2018\n\nSome of the many intractable problems that the US military has in this fight: How do you train soldiers to counter a terrorist group when your own government forbids you from talking about the group by name? Dan Lamothe, chicagotribune.com, "A U.S. Marine officer set off a debate: What's the military's role in countering ISIS' message?," 12 Apr. 2018\n\nAfter watching an emotionally trying game between the Blue Jays and the New York Yankees, Maddon was asked if baseball might be better suited for more intractable rivalries like the one that has developed between the Cubs and the Cardinals. Paul Sullivan, chicagotribune.com, "Joe Maddon on rivalries: 'I don't think anything would be wrong with a few more,' " 15 Mar. 2018\n\nBut how the series will ultimately end depends on many factors, and the conclusions may be more intractable than people realize. David Volodzko, CNN, "No more thrillers: The debate over who will win the World Cup final," 13 July 2018\n\nThese example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'intractable.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.