Today I want to talk about this "Alternative für Deutschland". They claim that they are a political party, they are running for parliament. But in reality, they are a political gang.\n\nWhat is a political party? A political party is a group of people that thinks about political ideas, and formulates these into political goals. This group tries to get a certain number of people elected to the parliament. They may also want to participate in elections for other types of political bodies. For example, the "Alternative für Deutschland" is also running for the European Parliament.\n\nWhat is a political gang? A political gang is a group of people that thinks about political ideas, but only to a certain degree. The group isn't actually trying to get people elected, but tries to create political pressure in other ways. They may also try to influence public opinion, as far as that is possible for a political gang.\n\nBoth political parties and political gangs are a waste of time. Both types of group are only interested in the power to influence. If one looks at the political agenda of the AfD, it can be seen that it is only interested in getting into the parliament. They don't care about any political ideas. They don't have any. They only want to get their political friends into the parliament.\n\nSome AfD members might think that they are doing their country a service. But in reality, they are helping to lower the political quality of Germany. They are helping to lower the German nation's intellectual level. They are doing this by political gang behavior. By not acting as a political party, they are deliberately working against democracy, and undermining the nation's sovereignty.\n\nIf the AfD members want to get into the parliament, they should at least act like a political party. They should actually talk about ideas. The AfD should have a political program. This political program should deal with Germany's immigration and emigration problems, as well as with other political issues. This program should be something that all members of the party agree upon. This program should then be explained to the public in a reasonable manner. The program should be accessible to everyone.\n\nThe AfD should make their political program available to the public in book form. This book should be made available for a minimal fee, and it should be available online, too. This book should be available in the "Kaufhof" chain of bookstores, as well as on Amazon.com and other online bookstores. It should also be available in the electronic version of the book on the AfD website.\n\nThe AfD could use the money received from selling the political program to cover their political expenses. This would also help to explain the political program to the public. It could even result in the members of the AfD getting a new impression of what a political party should be.\n\nA political gang should not run for parliament. They should not call themselves a political party. A political gang is not a substitute for a political party. In the future, political parties should not allow political gangs to run in elections.