Joining Alfie Kohn in helping our children grow into happy, healthy adults are Jean Twenge, author of The Narcissism Epidemic, Ken Bain, author of What the Best College Students Do, and Sharon Lamb, co-author of Packaging Boyhood. In an interview with LiveScience, Kohn explains why he is concerned with the way children are being taught in our culture.\n\nDiane Heacox: What are some of the ways we are failing children by pushing them to achieve in ways that leave them stressed and dispirited?\n\nAlfie Kohn: The American school system is doing a pretty good job of educating many children, but it's not doing a good job with others. Many kids are being failed. A study by UCLA's Civil Rights Project concluded that the education of African-American and Hispanic students "is a national crisis."\n\nSome children are being put in the untenable position of having to choose between their self-esteem and their education.\n\nThe latter group may include children who come from families where there is very little interest in education. They may be bright kids who've never had any practice in schoolwork and who aren't naturally motivated. They may be students with diagnosed learning disabilities. They may be students with what in the past would have been considered character or behavior problems, who today may be labeled with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or bipolar disorder or depression. They may be children whose family lives are so chaotic that they can't seem to sit still in class or do homework assignments.\n\nBut it also includes students who are being pushed to achieve in ways that leave them stressed and dispirited. An alarming number of these children, by the way, are at private schools.\n\nYou write that the push to excel is actually hurting kids. How so?\n\nIf you don't learn to cope with stress, to deal with it effectively, then it will get to you. And if it gets to you, it will undermine your achievement. The problem isn't stress, it's how we cope with stress. The problem is that we expect students to be able to cope with stress while failing to teach them how to do that.\n\nSome students experience so much stress in school that their achievement is impaired, not by what they don't know but by what they do know.\n\nHow are we hurting kids by pushing them to achieve?\n\nWe're not paying attention to the fact that many kids are being put in the untenable position of having to choose between their self-esteem and their education. To take just one example: On many standardized tests, students are expected to answer every question correctly. But as any teacher knows, even bright kids sometimes don't know the answers to questions they"