\n\n\n\nWhether you love the taste of kimchi or just like to eat things that come out of pickle jars, you know that fermented foods are better for your gut health. The question is, can you get enough of the good stuff from your diet alone? And if not, what supplements can you take to keep your gut bacteria happy?\n\nTo find out, we talked to Dr. Robert Zembroski, the Director of Research at Symbiotic Health. Dr. Zembroski also holds a doctorate in Microbiology and Immunology from Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, and has worked as a clinical microbiologist for the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Zembroski shared the science behind fermented foods and probiotics, as well as the best way to eat and supplement them for optimal gut health.\n\nWhat Is Fermentation?\n\nWe can think of food fermentation as the process of breaking down complex carbohydrates in plant or animal food sources to a simpler, more easily digestible form, says Dr. Zembroski.\n\n“When you have something like cabbage or turnips or beets or wheat, it has a tough cell wall around it. If you chew it up, you’re not going to digest the food inside,” he says. “If you want to get the nutrients out of that food, you’ve got to do something to it that will help you to digest that food.”\n\nFermentation is one of the easiest ways to accomplish that. The process, which can also occur through processes like drying and cooking, breaks down the food source, which makes it easier to digest. The microbes that break down the food source—such as yeasts and bacteria—also produce beneficial enzymes, proteins, vitamins, and other compounds.\n\n“If you ferment the right food in the right way, you’re basically extracting all of the good stuff out of that food. It’s just like when you make juice,” Dr. Zembroski says.\n\nHow Fermented Foods Improve Your Gut Health\n\nWhen the food in your gut is easier to digest, your gut bacteria can better access the food source and produce beneficial compounds like short-chain fatty"