I remember the first time I saw Dazed and Confused. I didn't know what to expect, but it blew me away. As I was preparing to sit down with Richard Linklater to discuss his new film, I had that same feeling. How do you get an audience to empathize with characters they would normally write off as deplorable, if not outright despicable? We talked about this and more, along with the film's complex themes, which Linklater and his actors spent years developing. This interview has been edited and condensed.\n\nHugh: So what I'm really curious about, it's a little bit about tone. The last scene is going to be one of the most talked about, but there are lots of moments in the film where I don't think it's going to be easy to laugh. We're going to laugh, but it's going to be a complicated laugh. I want to know how you feel about that scene, and the importance of it being there, and what else is going to be the most talked about scene for people?\n\nRichard: You know what, I don't have a clue. I had a couple of moments. You know, I don't think it's anything like the rape scene. You know, that was one that everybody seemed to feel like the first time they saw it, at least in the audience screenings, there was a palpable kind of, "Oh my god." But the bowling alley thing, we went through a couple of different iterations of it, and I thought the kids were just going to keep on throwing stuff at him, and he'd get up and leave, but no, that was the one that made people in the audience just go, "I can't." I mean, I remember, I just think of, I have to confess that I haven't seen the movie in a while, but I remember some of the testing, because the movie tested a lot. And they always give you these cards, like "what scene did you love, what scene did you hate," or whatever, and I was shocked by some of the things that people found totally inconsequential. You know, the whole detention room scene was almost universally praised. They loved that, they thought that was great, and the end of it, not so much.\n\nHugh: Yeah. The thing that's different about this film, obviously, is it's not only looking at people and their humanness. It's also looking at their flaws. I mean, you could write these guys off as total scumbags, but it's also very clear that they're young, and they're just trying to find their way. And that's what makes this so powerful.\n\nRichard: That was very intentional, and the fact that I had kids in the film, that was a choice that I made very consciously, because I wanted to get the perspective of the younger people who are looking at the world for the first time. And, you know, they don't have the same values that we do. They're different, and they don't realize it, but they are. They haven't been tested yet. And they're also kind of looking at, you know, maybe the judgmental generation that they have to become. So it was very conscious.\n\nHugh: So you're interested in their stories. What about the parents? I mean, you're going to be a parent soon, how has that changed the way you look at this film and the stories?\n\nRichard: I think it's made me even more interested in getting the stories right of the younger people, and being as honest as I can with them. I mean, I've thought about, I want to do a prequel, you know, like set in the '70s. I've thought about doing one that goes into the '90s, and then just getting closer and closer and closer to what it's like today, but really starting in the '70s and the '80s.\n\nHugh: It's a very complicated thing, and I know you've talked about this a lot, I mean, this idea of nostalgia. But I feel like there's a particular version of nostalgia that goes with this film. You know, you look at the sort of deep Americana in the film. I mean, how do you feel about that?\n\nRichard: Well, I guess I don't really know what you mean by that.\n\nHugh: It's this kind of very rich Americana that really looks at what life was like before people moved to the suburbs.\n\nRichard: Well, that was intentional, that was sort of the style of the film, but there were a lot of choices in the film, you know, that were very deliberate, and one was to make it as realistic as possible. You know, there was no comedy, there was no satire. I mean, it was really the intention, and one of the ideas that we were talking about was, how can you really make people identify with these people, if they're like, I mean, just people would say, "Oh, they're just total scumbags," and that's not the intention. You know, it's like, how can you make people feel like this is a reality, and it's not a joke? And I guess that was one of the choices, you know, like that was just something that was a choice that we were very intentional about.\n\nHugh: What about you? How much do you want this film to be like the experience you remember, and how much do you want to add your own personal story into it?\n\nRichard: You know, I guess, I can remember the moment, it's hard to put into words, but it was, it was a really, it was a weird thing, I was in high school, and we were supposed to be staying at this place, and I was going to walk there. And I was, it was very late, it was like, after 10:00 at night, and I started walking, and I started walking, and I started walking, and I started walking, and I was like, you know, what the hell, you know? And I started walking, and I started walking, and I ended up in my bed, but I just had this sense of loneliness and alienation that I can't describe, but it was a very, it's kind of hard to put into words.\n\nHugh: Yeah.\n\nRichard: So I think that's one of the things that was in the film, that's in all my films, but I think that was something that maybe people don't talk about. But it's, you know, the great teenage angst, that's like a rite of passage, you know, and I guess that was one of the ideas. I think that's what you mean by kind of a different nostalgia.\n\nHugh: Yeah, but I also wonder if it's almost more... It's like an explanation of the parents, of why they are who they are. You know, because I feel like, I mean, you're an independent filmmaker. You're not making a studio movie, but a lot of these people are making that decision because it's a career, but it's also that they're really starting to question their parents.\n\nRichard: That's a good point. Yeah, I mean, I guess that's probably true. But I'm not sure that the same characters would make the same choices. You know, it's a little bit different.\n\nHugh: That's true.\n\nRichard: So I mean, I guess there's probably a different way of looking at it, but I'm not sure.\n\nHugh: Yeah.\n\nRichard: But that's probably true.\n\nHugh: One of the other things that I think is so powerful about the movie, is you can't really tell that they're all the same age.\n\nRichard: Right.\n\nHugh: You know, I think a lot of the time, especially in independent movies, you really can't, especially with characters who are supposed to be that age. But you really do a great job of putting that in there.\n\nRichard: You know, that was a real choice. The only choice that we did was when the girls are taking their bikini tops off, we did make them a little bit older than the guys, because the guys, they were mostly 18, and the girls, you know, they were 21, and they wanted to look that way, you know.\n\nHugh: Yeah.\n\nRichard: I didn't want to deal with, you know, the issue of kids playing these kinds of roles, you know.\n\nHugh: Yeah.\n\nRichard: So, you know, that was one of the choices that we made, but other than that, you know, that was a choice that we made.\n\nHugh: You know, I can't help but think of the movies that inspired this. You know, I'm wondering if there are any that you feel like really influenced you, or you thought about as you were working on this.\n\nRichard: There were lots of movies, but I can't think of any specifically. But, you know, it was really one of the, like I said, it was really one of the influences was, you know, when I was a kid, and I watched all those movies, and I thought, "Wow, I want to make movies that have this feel." And that's what I wanted to do, and when I say, "this feel," I mean like, you know, I guess it's sort of the feel of early '70s films, but the cool thing about those films, they have their own feel, you know. I mean, they were different, and I