Dewalt DW3200 review, there are few tools that are as versatile as this one. You may have a thousand bucks of cordless tools, but there’s nothing that will do as much as this one will do. As you might have noticed, the construction of this unit is incredibly sturdy, so that you don’t have to worry about it breaking when you use it. Also, it is a bit heavy, and it will take a while to get used to using it, especially if you have not used any other heavy drills.\n\nPower\n\nWe also tested the power of this Dewalt DW3200 and we must say that it is very impressive. It delivers 3,300 RPM, which is more than enough to bore holes and drill in all kinds of materials. It can easily penetrate into wood, brick, or concrete and it can bore holes up to two inches. The trigger lock mechanism also works well, which makes this drill safer to use.\n\nCordless or corded?\n\nIt is important to remember that this drill can work either as a corded or a cordless unit, and this is very important for you to know. This Dewalt DW3200 uses the 20 volt lithium-ion batteries and they can last longer than you might expect. They are also very light and durable, so you will be able to use them for a long time. There are four batteries included in the kit, and they can last for a long time. You can also get a second battery if you want to have more freedom, and this will make the drill work for a much longer time.\n\nExtra Features\n\nYou may also like the extra features included in this Dewalt DW3200. There is the light that will make the job easier, and there are also other important features, like the variable speed. This is also a very durable drill, so it will last for a very long time. Also, the build quality is fantastic, so you don’t have to worry about it breaking easily.\n\nOverall\n\nIf you have a lot of different drilling needs, this is the drill for you. This drill is perfect for the casual user, but it can also be used by professionals. It is also very durable, so you can use it for a very long time, and you will get the most for your money. You should also remember that this drill is very powerful, and it can work for a long time, without breaking down.\n\nIf you want to see what more we have, you can visit Amazon.com and check all of the available drills. You can also check our article on the best reciprocating saw, to see what the best product in this category is. Also, don’t forget to like and share this article, if you liked it.