Bill Clinton went on a bit of a bizarre rant while campaigning for his wife in Colorado this week. He had some pretty choice words for Bernie Sanders’ supporters. You know, the “purists” who want a “revolution”.\n\nThe Wall Street Journal posted video of the moment and I’m so glad they did. You won’t believe what he said.\n\nWatch:\n\n“I think it’s very interesting. There’s a reason that young people are saying: ‘Hey, I’m really concerned about this issue of income inequality, but I’m not sure I’m willing to take a million dollars in negative ads to get somebody who will have the same position I will have when I wake up in the morning.’ I think they’re willing to take that chance to say: ‘This is really important to us. And we’re going to help you through this primary process to say it’s important to you and we’re going to give you ideas and ways to change things.’\n\nAnd that’s what I think they mean. They’re not just being, I think, naive politically. I think they mean what they say. And I think they’re going to be a very powerful force.”\n\nWow, that’s some rant. Let’s unpack that a little.\n\nFirst, Bernie’s supporters aren’t saying they want their candidate to win the nomination just to vote for Clinton. They want him to win. They want to see the revolution he’s been talking about since he started running for president.\n\nAnd if you’re wondering how he’s going to get to the White House without the millions of dollars in negative ads that are part of the “swamp” Clinton herself says she’s going to drain, the answer is by actually inspiring people to vote for him because of his ideas. He’s not taking money from big corporations and wealthy people. He’s getting it from individual donors, just like Bernie Sanders.\n\nSecond, if Sanders supporters are supposed to be naive to think they can get a revolution by electing a candidate who will help to bring one about, then Hillary Clinton supporters are just plain delusional. There’s no way she can do it without the millions of dollars she’s raising. She doesn’t inspire anyone. She’s a wealthy, out-of-touch candidate whose campaign is all about her because she has so little to offer the American people that she has to convince them she’s not a “crook”.\n\nHer policies are so conservative that she’s found herself on the wrong side of the issues where she’s actually needed to take a stand. Hillary doesn’t believe in the actual goals of a revolution.\n\nWhat do you think? Is Hillary a stronger candidate for her own revolution or for Bernie’s?\n\n