"By Beth Duff-Brown, Associated Press\n\nNEW YORK -- President Barack Obama is defending the government's massive phone record collection program as a critical tool against terrorism, saying Americans don't have to sacrifice their privacy in order to be safe.\n\nIn a series of interviews on Monday, Obama sought to assure Americans concerned about the National Security Agency's surveillance efforts that the programs are overseen by federal judges and authorized by Congress. The disclosures by former NSA systems analyst Edward Snowden last week raised alarms that the government is collecting data on millions of U.S. citizens.\n\nIn a taped interview with NBC's "Rock Center," the president sought to reassure the public.\n\n"I am comfortable that the program currently is not being abused," Obama said. "I'm comfortable that if the American people examined exactly what was taking place, how it was being used, what the safeguards were, that they would say, 'You know what? These folks are following the law and doing what they say they're doing.'"\n\nHe added: "It's important to recognize that you can't have 100 percent security and also then have 100 percent privacy and zero inconvenience. We're going to have to make some choices as a society."\n\nObama also discussed the programs in an interview with Telemundo and in an online question-and-answer session on Facebook.\n\nObama insisted that he is not just a bystander to the NSA. He said he is confident that the agency is not engaging in domestic surveillance and is not spying on members of Congress or the news media. He said he had stepped in to make changes at the agency when it wandered off course.\n\n"I've taken the view, very publicly, that with the changes we made, and the particular situation we find ourselves in, that they strike the right balance," Obama said in the interview with NBC.\n\nObama's national security team has mounted a vigorous public defense of the programs since they were disclosed last week.\n\nOn Monday, the office of Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, the president's chief intelligence adviser, declassified and released three secret U.S. court opinions showing the National Security Agency's interpretation of its authority to collect bulk phone records to combat terrorism.\n\nThe White House also gave some support to one of Snowden's chief arguments. The NSA has used the Patriot Act to collect records on all phone calls in the United States. But the Patriot Act does not apply to American phone records, it only allows for collection of data that are relevant to a terrorism investigation.\n\nStill, Clapper told reporters in a separate briefing that the program is "not a surveillance program." He said it does not allow the targeting of U.S. citizens and is overseen by the courts, Congress and administration officials.\n\nThe revelations have triggered widespread criticism and raised questions about whether the administration has gone too far in its efforts to protect Americans from terrorism. The phone-records program, one of two secret programs that came to light last week, collects the numbers and time stamps of phone calls made in the United States but not their content.\n\nIn his Facebook interview, Obama acknowledged that there had been a lack of public trust on the issue, but he sought to play down the programs' intrusiveness.\n\n"What you're talking about is somebody who is like a suspect, somebody who may be involved in terrorist activity. When that person's telephone calls are analyzed, the degree of intrusion into the content of those phone calls is reduced dramatically," he said.\n\nThe Justice Department said late Monday that its top official for overseeing intelligence investigations, David Cuthbertson, is leaving his position as acting assistant attorney general for the department's national security division.\n\nCuthbertson has been serving as acting principal associate deputy attorney general, a position that is held by a single person. He's been filling in for Mary McCord, who is awaiting Senate confirmation to fill the post permanently.\n\nCuthbertson joined the Justice Department in 2006, and most recently served as principal deputy assistant attorney general for the department's civil division. He has been nominated by Obama to be a judge on the U.S. Court of International Trade.\n\nThe department also announced that Rachel L. Brand, a longtime Justice Department lawyer, will take over as head of the department's Office of Legal Policy.