"We know a few months ago Marvel started going after their fans for using file sharing programs and a few days ago they were spotted trying to use webbots to catch people that had downloaded some of their movie clips. Well, some of the websites that use the file sharing program have already reported a number of takedown notices.\n\nThe first one comes from Mininova.org, a site that allows users to upload and download music, movies and television shows. The website is being targeted for three different clips, one from “Thor,” one from “Captain America” and one from “Avengers.” The notice that Mininova received states that these clips were filmed in a movie theater and posted on the website and it is a clear infringement of copyright. This is also the first time I’ve seen a takedown notice for footage filmed in a movie theater. They even went so far as to say that there were signs and warnings posted around the theater prohibiting the use of recording devices during the screening.\n\nThe second one comes from TorrentFreak.com, a website that allows users to upload and download files from the public domain. They have also received a notice for a clip from “Thor,” but also for a clip from “Iron Man 2” and “Captain America.” Like Mininova, the notice for the second clip mentioned that the movie was screened in a movie theater and the clip was being posted without permission. They also said that there was a sign at the theater stating that recording devices are not allowed. The notice for the “Captain America” clip also mentions that the clip was posted for profit.\n\nThe third and final notice comes from 4Shared.com, a site that allows users to upload and download movies, television shows, video games and more. This website is currently hosting a clip from “Thor,” a clip from “Captain America” and a clip from “Avengers.” Like the other websites, the notice also mentions that the movie was screened in a movie theater and the clip is being posted without permission. The notice for the “Thor” clip mentions that there were warnings posted around the theater prohibiting the use of recording devices. They also mention that the clip was filmed during a premiere and that they have taken measures to protect their property.\n\nIf these websites take these notices seriously then they may want to just take down the clips in question. This is why we never link to videos or pictures of leaked footage. We don’t want to see any of you getting into trouble with your favorite websites because they may not be as hardcore as we are when it comes to being anti-movie piracy.\n\nAs of right now, we do not know how much it will cost these websites to fight the notices. So, we will continue to keep an eye on this as it develops.\n\nWhat are your thoughts on these takedown notices? Does Marvel have a right to protect their property? Share your thoughts in the comment section below.