You may already know this, but I think it bears repeating. The pursuit of happiness is not found in fleeting pleasures. It is not found in materialism. It is not found in security. The pursuit of happiness is found in relationship.\n\nTo gain and to keep a foothold in happiness is to engage in the highest and most significant pursuits possible. It is to become the kind of person that no matter what comes, you are happy. It is to choose your pursuits wisely, and to change them as your heart dictates.\n\nLet me give you an example. Some of you know that I grew up in a faith-based Christian household. I am very grateful for my parents, but they did not have the happiest of marriages. My dad loved my mom, but he had a very hard time respecting her. He loved us children, but he had a hard time honoring us. As I grew up, it took me a long time to realize how much pain my parents’ decisions caused each other and my brother and me. As I became an adult, I found that what I wanted most from a marriage was the ability to choose to pursue my wife’s happiness. Not just by taking her out for fancy dinners and vacations, but by being intentional in my actions toward her, even on the days that are less exciting. To be intentional about spending time with her, even when my career was more important. To listen to her even when it is inconvenient or when it will hurt my feelings. To put her needs first, even when I disagree with her, and to encourage her and celebrate her for who she is.\n\nRelationship takes effort. Relationship takes intentionality. Relationship takes humility and grace. That is why I decided that it was more important to me than a successful career or any other accomplishment. That is why I want my marriage to be the highest pursuit of my life.\n\nIf you want to know the source of true happiness, then choose your pursuits wisely. You can be an excellent Christian, a great husband, a perfect parent, an excellent leader, a talented businessperson, or any of a number of pursuits that make the world better. But unless you are pursuing your wife, and maybe your kids, with all of your heart, then you are not going to find true happiness.\n\nToday is the first day of a new year. It is a day for new beginnings. What do you want to change in your life to make it more like the life of Christ? How can you make the highest pursuit of your life the happiness of your wife and kids?\n\nFor me, this is the highest pursuit I can make. I hope you will decide to make a pursuit of your wife too.