Advanced Biological Warfare (ABW)\n\nThere is an urgent need for "offensive" biological warfare (BW) capability, to complement defensive measures against an attack with biological weapons (BW). Existing defensive measures provide only limited protection against BW, and their usefulness would be significantly reduced in some circumstances. No acceptable defenses have been developed against BW agents.\n\nThis lack of adequate defenses against biological weapons is a major vulnerability in the security of the United States. The increasing danger that biological weapons will be used for hostile purposes poses an urgent need to counter the threat.\n\nModern biological warfare could include development and use of pathogenic organisms and toxins, as well as incapacitating agents. The former might well be the only BW agent of concern because of their potential for causing mass casualties.\n\nThe widespread use of modern technology has increased the availability of biological materials for use as BW agents. Current medical knowledge has increased the potential to create and spread biological weapons. This trend is expected to continue.\n\nEarly development and testing of a pathogenic agent for use in an offensive BW program would not be easily detectable. A biological agent can be disseminated in many ways and to many places with little warning. It is difficult to effectively monitor, detect, and decontaminate a wide area after an attack.\n\nStrategic Offensive Biological Warfare\n\nStrategic offensive BW provides the United States with a major deterrent against potential adversaries. As a deterrent weapon, strategic offensive BW can have a significant impact on the overall military posture of the United States and its potential adversaries. It is in the national interest of the United States to develop a military biological capability to deter an adversary from using biological weapons.\n\nStrategic offensive BW will be used against enemy personnel or facilities to inflict maximum casualties, degrade military capability, or destroy life-sustaining resources or capabilities. In military operations, strategic offensive BW would be used as part of a coordinated effort, in conjunction with other conventional and nuclear forces, and it would require integration of tactical, operational, and strategic capabilities.\n\nStrategic offensive BW could be employed by the United States to complement and support its defensive and non-military (e.g., diplomatic, political, economic, and legal) measures in the event of a biological attack. Its primary purpose would be to minimize the impact of a biological attack on the United States or its forces. Strategic offensive BW may also have applications in countering adversaries that are seeking to develop and maintain a BW capability.\n\nNon-Strategic Offensive Biological Warfare\n\nNon-strategic offensive BW may be employed in support of specific military operations against specific adversary targets. It may also be used in support of other military operations. It would be used to complement and support defensive and non-military measures in the event of a biological attack.\n\nNon-strategic offensive BW would be limited in scope and duration, but it would still be considered offensive because it would result in the infliction of casualties. Non-strategic offensive BW would be used against specific targets, rather than against a large area. It would normally be employed in peacetime as a form of anticipatory self-defense, rather than as a weapon of last resort. Non-strategic offensive BW could be conducted clandestinely to avoid a general war.\n\nThe possession of non-strategic offensive BW capabilities would enhance the deterrent posture of the United States. It would enhance US options to counter biological threats. These options include military action and other non-military actions, which could preclude the need for a military response.\n\nThe National Military Strategy (NMS) endorses non-strategic offensive BW as a credible deterrent to aggression against US interests. The NMS identifies two levels of non-strategic offensive BW for deterrence: A highly credible threat to use BW agents in response to biological attacks or a threat to use BW agents in response to a biological attack. The NMS also identifies a low-level but still credible threat to use BW agents to counter limited biological attacks, sabotage, and hostage-taking.\n\nGlobal Issues\n\nThe US BW program is important to national security and international stability. A fundamental premise of US policy is that offensive BW capabilities are legitimate instruments of national power, especially if the United States is threatened by chemical or biological weapons. The United States has an interest in dissuading the proliferation of BW programs. The development of offensive capabilities by countries without chemical or biological weapons programs or doctrines would be destabilizing and increase the likelihood of their use. The growth of indigenous BW programs in countries with other WMD programs would have similar destabilizing effects.\n\nInternational stability is jeopardized when there is uncertainty as to whether nations will abide by international legal commitments regarding BW. The US BW program is not intended to influence foreign countries, but to demonstrate the US commitment to deter the use of biological weapons and to respond if deterrence fails. BW will be maintained as a credible deterrent, but not one that would have to be used. The United States should make clear its continued intention to pursue an effective BW program to deter adversaries, if necessary.\n\nUS non-strategic offensive BW is an important element of national power and US leadership in arms control. The US BW program plays a crucial role in US leadership in arms control. Non-strategic offensive BW is necessary for full compliance with existing and emerging arms control and non-proliferation agreements. It is important for successful implementation of the CWC, the BWC, and other regional and international agreements. This would prevent the proliferation of BW programs in countries with other WMD programs.\n\nInterdiction\n\nThe inherent characteristics of biological agents make them suitable for clandestine delivery and easy to disseminate. Biological agents could be delivered clandestinely to specific personnel or facilities in areas under control of a potential adversary, without risk to the agents’ handlers.\n\nThe ability of an adversary to clandestinely deliver a biological agent makes the effectiveness of a traditional containment strategy, such as is used in the management of nuclear, chemical, and missile proliferation, problematic. A defensive strategy for biological weapons will have limited utility.\n\nInterdiction of a clandestine BW attack would require significant intelligence resources and considerable time. It would be difficult to find the attacking agent, assess the magnitude of the attack, and identify the source of the attack. If it is found, the agents are difficult to detect and are difficult to destroy. In the unlikely event that a clandestine BW attack were detected and stopped before any damage occurred, the United States would have to consider the political and military implications of conducting an extensive search for the source of the BW attack.\n\nIf an adversary does attempt to use BW, the United States would have to consider the implications of an extensive search for the source of the attack, whether it should be attempted, and what political and military actions might result. US policy is to discourage development of BW programs in countries without other WMD programs, but to take BW programs in friendly countries into account. Therefore, the United States would have to consider how the public and international community would react to the use of US resources to search for a biological attack.\n\nBiological Weapons Control\n\nUnited States policy is to discourage countries from developing and using BW and to discourage the proliferation of BW.\n\nThe United States wants to minimize the risk of WMD proliferation and to prevent or mitigate the harmful consequences of proliferation. Because BW programs are easier to develop and conceal than are nuclear, chemical, and missile programs, US policy is to take appropriate measures to minimize the risk of proliferation of BW. In the case of US friends and allies, it will consider the importance of the BW program to the defense of the country and its overall relations with that country.\n\nBiological weapons could be used in conjunction with nuclear, chemical, or other weapons. This possibility increases the potential threat posed by BW. The United States has concluded that the worldwide prohibition of BW would not eliminate the threat of their use. Although the worldwide elimination of BW is a long-term goal, there is no realistic means to reach it in the foreseeable future. The United States will continue to work toward that goal, but in the meantime it will maintain an effective BW deterrent.\n\nFormal arms control, including international verification of BW programs, would not be sufficient to prevent the clandestine development and use of BW. Biological weapons can be developed and used without a massive infrastructure. Interdiction of clandestine BW programs may not be successful. A country with both BW and chemical weapons programs would be able to attack with biological weapons without any risk of exposure of its chemical weapons program. The United States will seek to work with friendly countries to prevent proliferation of BW.\n\nThe United States would oppose a global ban on the development, possession, or use of BW because it is not a realistic possibility. Such a ban would not eliminate the threat of BW. It would be easy to evade a ban and difficult to enforce.\n\nThe United States will continue to work with the international community to reach an effective and acceptable solution to the BW problem.\n\nTechnical Issues\n\nThe United States does not want to be vulnerable to BW, and it must be able to meet the challenge of a biological attack. However, the US BW program will not be capable of protecting the United States against a chemical or nuclear attack, nor will it be able to protect against all types of biological weapons.\n\nThere is no defense against BW. The United States does not want to be vulnerable to BW. However, if an adversary did use BW, the United States would be willing to use its offensive BW capability to counter it.\n\nThere are no weapons systems or defensive measures capable of protecting against all types of biological warfare. However, a significant deterrent can be developed to dissuade potential adversaries from using BW. This would require BW programs to develop and maintain a viable capability to inflict casualties, degradation of military capability, or destruction of life-sustaining resources or capabilities.\n\nThe likelihood that a biological attack would be effective is low. The impact of biological weapons would be low compared to that of nuclear, chemical