5.0 out of 5 stars Excellent jacket with plenty of pockets. Verified Purchase This jacket is lightweight, well designed and with plenty of pockets. The Goretex fabric does its job as it has to and seems to be durable. The size I ordered is a bit too big but it still does the job well and I have plenty of room for extra layers. The fabric has a nice 'stretch' in it so you can put it on easily even if it is a little bit large. The length of the sleeves and the torso is excellent, as I have shorter arms.\n\nI would highly recommend this jacket as a light duty waterproof. I would buy it again.\n\n5.0 out of 5 stars Great jacket Verified Purchase A great jacket, warm enough for the Scottish autumn, and room for extra layers underneath. The sleeves are long enough, and the pockets are deep enough, even when wearing gloves. The fabric seems to be very hard wearing and well made.\n\n5.0 out of 5 stars Lightweight and comfortable Verified Purchase I got this because it was described as 'running short', which seemed to be a reference to the short length, as opposed to it being for a runner. I wanted a wind/waterproof jacket which could be worn as a 'trousers-coat' on its own or over my normal jacket, so I was quite happy with the short length.\n\nIt is extremely lightweight and, despite its short length, very comfortable. It has two large pockets on the front and one in the centre, plus two pockets inside the front and two on the upper arms.\n\nI haven't worn it in really wet weather, but in light drizzle it seems to work well. It is obviously waterproof, but perhaps not warm enough to wear on its own in very cold or wet weather. However, worn over my normal coat it does provide adequate insulation for light rain or windy weather.\n\nI would certainly recommend this jacket, especially if you don't need it for extreme weather.\n\n4.0 out of 5 stars Sturdy and waterproof Verified Purchase Bought for my daughter to keep in her bag, so she would always have it with her, incase the weather turns, the jacket is light and waterproof, so no worries about her getting wet. The jacket looks smart and has plenty of room to put in extra layers underneath.\n\n5.0 out of 5 stars Very Good for the price Verified Purchase I am very pleased with this item. It is lightweight and keeps the wind and rain out. The length is also great for me (I'm 5'9"). I was so impressed I bought one for my friend.\n\n5.0 out of 5 stars Liked this jacket Verified Purchase Nice jacket. I wore this jacket for quite some time. Its light but protective. Water proof but still comfortable when it gets warm. I had this jacket in grey and I will buy this jacket again when this one is worn out.\n\n5.0 out of 5 stars Ideal waterproof jacket Verified Purchase This jacket has just what I was looking for, at a really"