Vanguard University’s 3-year old science and technology building, Hunt Hall, has become the first on campus building to achieve LEED platinum status, a recognition from the U.S. Green Building Council that is the highest level of sustainable building certification. The new building, which opened in August 2009, was constructed to provide specialized laboratory and classroom space for chemistry, biology, earth science, mathematics, physics, and digital art, graphics, and photography programs.\n\n“We’re very excited and honored to receive this prestigious recognition,” said Dr. C. Stanley (Bucky) Jones, president of Vanguard University. “In addition to the environmental benefits of this new facility, it is also extremely functional. It has set a high standard for us to follow in future construction and renovation projects.”\n\nLEED Platinum is the highest of four levels of LEED certification. Buildings must achieve a score of at least 80 out of 100 possible points to receive the award. Hunt Hall’s score is 93.\n\nTo achieve platinum status, Hunt Hall used recycled and low VOC materials, is more energy efficient, has better indoor air quality, and has extensive indoor and outdoor water conservation measures.\n\nHunt Hall is designed with innovative features to conserve water, including low-flow toilets, a ground-water recovery system for toilets and urinals, and low-flow showerheads. The building also has low-flow hand dryers and high-efficiency faucets. Outdoor water-wise features include drought-tolerant landscaping and a rooftop rainwater catchment system.\n\nOther water conservation features include a dark-colored roof, skylights, and window blinds that use computer-controlled solar shades that open and close automatically, saving additional energy when daylight is sufficient.\n\nTo help conserve energy, Hunt Hall uses photo-voltaic panels for electricity, and high-performance exterior windows and insulated walls that reduce the need for heating and cooling. The building has heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that provide highly efficient temperature control.\n\nA green roof on top of the building protects the building from sun and rainfall, and reduces the amount of storm water that needs to be treated.\n\nA LEED point is awarded for each of seven categories: sustainable site, water efficiency, energy and atmosphere, materials and resources, indoor environmental quality, innovation and design, and regional priority.\n\nHunt Hall has won several other awards since its completion. It was the recipient of the Grand Award for Best Green Building by the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture (ACSA), in the high school and higher education categories. The building was also named a 2009 Western College or University Project of the Year by the Western Chapter of the Building and Construction Trades Council, and received a Construction Excellence Award from the Green Building Certification Institute (GBCI).