Just because you can put up an extra room doesn't mean you can charge a tenant for it. If you plan to create an additional bedroom, a formal living room, a dining room or a home office, you have to check the size and any of your local or city housing laws. In most cases, you have to add enough square footage to the property to allow for the additional room.\n\nFinding The Minimum Size Your local housing laws provide the minimum size for all bedrooms, dining rooms and living rooms. To determine the minimum size, you need to know the number of occupants of your property. In most cases, you have to provide 150 square feet of space for each occupant of a home or apartment. In addition, you have to provide sufficient space for a bed, bureau, desk, chair and at least one window.\n\nNew Spaces In most cases, a master suite requires a minimum of 250 square feet. The extra 50 square feet is required because a bathroom typically has at least 150 square feet of floor space. In most cases, your local housing laws don't require the entire property to be at the minimum size, but you need to provide enough square footage to accommodate each of the additional rooms. For example, if you need to add a new bedroom or an office, you have to provide the space for the bed, bureau, desk and window. In addition, you have to provide the minimum square footage for a living room, dining room and a kitchen.\n\nPlanning For The Future You might decide to add a formal living room, dining room and home office to your property because you want to lease the property out, but if you are just adding a new space because you have room, you can still rent the extra space to a tenant. In fact, you could even rent it out to your current tenant. For example, if you decide to add an additional bedroom and rent it out to the person who is already living in your home, you can charge the tenant for the additional bedroom.\n\nTips If you are converting a bedroom or office to a dining room, you will need to provide a minimum of 40 square feet of space, but you don't need to provide the other 50 square feet if you want to create a dining room. In most cases, you don't need to provide a home office, but you need to provide at least 70 square feet of space to convert a dining room into a home office.\n\nAbout the Author Larry Simmons is a freelance writer and expert in the fusion of computer technology and business. He has a B.S. in economics, an M.S. in information systems, an M.S. in communications technology, as well as significant work towards an M.B.A. in finance. He's published several hundred articles with Demand Studios.\n\nPhoto Credits Digital Vision./Digital Vision/Getty Images