Jedi Academy Edit\n\nThe main force behind the reintroduction of lightsabers was Luke Skywalker. After the successful defeat of the Empire and the rescue of Han Solo, Luke set up a new Jedi Academy on Yavin IV. Luke realized that many of the Jedi had not had any formal training before the destruction of the first Death Star and had been turned to the dark side because of Palpatine. So, Luke set out to train these new Jedi, this new generation of Jedi. This new Jedi would be well trained and well educated in the ways of the Jedi Order.\n\nLuke's first student was his nephew, Jacen Solo. The grandson of Darth Vader had to be trained slowly, since Luke wanted to teach him about the Force and not just make him a Jedi. It took a few years, but Jacen eventually became a fully trained Jedi Knight.\n\nJacen and his cousin, Jaina, eventually went off on their own and formed a New Republic task force to hunt down Warlords and Dark Jedi that had been reborn after the Battle of Endor. It was this task force that resulted in the new lightsaber, since the first models were destroyed during their hunt.\n\nModels Edit\n\nThe first model of lightsaber was based on the standard lightsaber used in the years of the Old Republic, and that of the Jedi that followed. The blade was made of phrik, a metal that had been invented on the planet Phrik. The rest of the lightsaber was made of phrik, too. Luke also introduced a new lightsaber crystal, the adegan crystal. These crystals were found on the planet of Adega and had a deep, crimson color to them. The crystal had the ability to turn the blue of the blade to a crimson red, giving the blade a very sharp look.\n\nAfter a few years, the first model of lightsaber was replaced. A master lightsaber smith by the name of Beldris introduced the second model of lightsaber. The lightsaber was basically the same, but had a few differences. Beldris removed the grip that had been a part of the hilt of the lightsaber, since he felt that they slowed the duelist down too much. This new model also had a metal handle that ran up the entire hilt of the lightsaber and gave the lightsaber a slightly different look. The handle of the lightsaber was wrapped in a special cloth that was strong and flexible at the same time. The cloth was wrapped around the handle and wound down the hilt of the lightsaber. The tip of the hilt was a set of ten spikes, which gave the lightsaber a very nasty look. Beldris also created a new crystal that was inserted into the hilt of the lightsaber. This new crystal had a bluish green color and Beldris called it a Ion Crystal.\n\nAfter the Battle of Yavin IV, Luke introduced a new lightsaber, which was also the last lightsaber model he created. Luke redesigned the lightsaber to look more like a normal lightsaber hilt, and removed the cloth from the handle. Instead, the handle was metal with small ridges going down the entire hilt. This new model also had a new kind of crystal, the sith alchemy crystal. This crystal was made by a Sith Lord named Darth Selus. Selus made this crystal to be deadly to Jedi, because he knew how strong the Jedi were. Selus infused the crystal with a deadly poison that, once it had been injected, could kill a Jedi in mere seconds. Luke also made the crystals to be slightly smaller than the other two crystals, so that duelists could choose which one they preferred.\n\nAs the galaxy moved forward, more people became attracted to the Jedi, and the duelists at the Jedi Academy needed more and more crystals. Since there was not enough of the Sith Alchemy crystals to go around, Luke decided to create a new kind of crystal that he called the Crixtis crystal. The Crixtis crystals were a greenish color and were much more easier to find, since they were mined in the world of Crixtis. Crixtis crystals were much smaller than the other two crystals, but were more powerful, although not as powerful as the Sith Alchemy crystal.\n\nThese crystals were the only crystals that could be used in the last model of lightsaber, the saberstaff. The saberstaff was basically a lightsaber that had two handles. One handle was on one side of the saberstaff, and the other handle was on the other side. The saberstaff came in handy for some Jedi, such as Luke, who would prefer to have a saberstaff with two handles.\n\nOver time, the duelists of the Jedi Academy would replace their crystal every year. This way, they had a crystal that was new, and their hilts would not be beat up from many duels.\n\nJedi Temples Edit\n\nAfter the war with the Yuuzhan Vong, a small band of Jedi began to form on Coruscant. These Jedi used the newly built Jedi Temple as their main meeting place. As the group grew in size, more and more Jedi came to Coruscant to use the temple. They also needed someplace to live, so they used an abandoned apartment complex on Coruscant. After the war, the apartments were deserted and the Jedi used them as their main place of living. After the Battle of Yavin IV, when Luke decided to train a new generation of Jedi, he took control of the temple, since the Jedi Council was no more. Luke decided to expand the temple, making it much larger. He also decided to make the apartment complex part of the temple, making the Jedi Temple one of the largest Jedi Temple in the galaxy.\n\nLuke decided to break the Jedi Academy off from the temple. He wanted the academy to have a different feel to it, since it would be the training ground for the new generation of Jedi. This is why the academy was built at Yavin IV.\n\nLuke Skywalker Edit\n\nThe creation of lightsabers was mostly due to Luke Skywalker, who knew that the Jedi had to be better trained. When Luke first joined the New Republic, he came with a lightsaber that was similar to the ones in the Old Republic. It had a blue crystal in the hilt, and had a yellowish green handle. It also had a long thin handle that curved around and came back down the hilt of the lightsaber. The handle was wrapped in a cloth, but not a leathery looking cloth, but a soft cloth that was somewhat like silk.\n\nThis lightsaber was used by Luke for quite a while, until he decided that he needed a better training lightsaber. This training lightsaber was the model that was used at the Jedi Academy, which was used to train new Jedi. This new lightsaber was used to train the new Jedi, and was kept as a lightsaber that was handed down from Master to Padawan.\n\nWhen the Yuuzhan Vong attacked Coruscant, Luke saw that it was a good time to test a new type of lightsaber. Luke realized that the Yuuzhan Vong had no Jedi on their side, so there was no reason to create a lightsaber that was specifically designed to defeat Jedi. Luke decided to redesign the lightsaber that he used on Yavin IV, to see how well the Yuuzhan Vong were affected by lightsabers. He was not sure if they would be affected at all, but Luke knew that he would have to train the new Jedi in the Jedi Academy differently than how it was done in the past. He was not sure if the Jedi should fight with lightsabers, or not.