United States Supreme Court ROACH v. NEW JERSEY, (1987) No. 86-1254 Argued: October 13, 1987 Decided: December 8, 1987\n\nIn 1976, New Jersey enacted the State Street Bank and Trust Company Holding Company Act, which provides for the dissolution of any out-of-state bank holding company with a controlling interest in a New Jersey state-chartered bank, unless the holding company adopts a plan of divestiture that the New Jersey Banking Department finds will "preserve and protect" the assets and liabilities of the bank. Although the Holding Company Act specifies that it applies only to banks "whose principal place of business is in this State," the Department applied it to a New York bank holding company with controlling interests in two New Jersey state-chartered banks, one of which has its principal place of business in New Jersey and the other of which is located in Pennsylvania. The bank holding company brought this action in Federal District Court, which upheld the application of the statute, and the Court of Appeals affirmed.\n\nHeld:\n\n1. A bank holding company's activity in other states, without more, cannot suffice to render it subject to the requirements of the New Jersey Holding Company Act. To require otherwise would not serve the purposes of that Act. Pp. 76-80.\n\n(a) The Act is designed to protect the interests of the public and the integrity of the financial system. These interests do not automatically attach to an out-of-state bank holding company that controls a state-chartered bank with its principal place of business in New Jersey, but rather attach only to the holding company if it, in turn, exercises control over the bank. When a New Jersey statute attaches such interests to an out-of-state entity, it acts on the out-of-state entity and may require the out-of-state entity to comply with its dictates. When, by contrast, an out-of-state entity is subjected to a statute that seeks to attach such interests to it without making any showing of its control over an entity subject to the statute, that entity is not being regulated by the statute, but is instead being punished for an injury inflicted on the public by its exercise of its constitutional right to engage in interstate commerce. Thus, the key inquiry in determining whether a statute's application to an out-of-state entity constitutes regulation or punishment is the connection between the activity of the out-of-state entity and the State. Pp. 76-78.\n\n(b) Because the New Jersey Holding Company Act requires that the bank subject to divestiture have its principal place of business in New Jersey, it seeks to regulate out-of-state bank holding companies that control state-chartered banks with their principal place of business in New Jersey. By requiring these holding companies to divest themselves of their control over such banks, the Act "regulates" the banks themselves and those who control them. Thus, in determining whether the application of the Act to the out-of-state bank holding company at issue here "regulates" that company or, instead, punishes it, the crucial question is whether, under the Act, the New Jersey Banking Department can require the out-of-state bank holding company to divest itself of its control over a bank with its principal place of business in New Jersey unless that holding company first submits to the Department's regulatory review and the Department approves the divestiture plan. The Act, however, does not provide for any such review, but instead applies only if the New Jersey Banking Department finds that the out-of-state holding company's divestiture plan will "preserve and protect" the assets and liabilities of the affected bank. The Department has given no indication that it would or could examine the effect of the divestiture plan on the affected bank's assets and liabilities, or otherwise engage in regulatory review. And, to the extent that the New Jersey Holding Company Act directs divestiture of control over a bank in order to protect the assets and liabilities of that bank, it is punishing the out-of-state holding company, not regulating it. Because the Act applies to the bank holding company by virtue of its ownership of the bank, and not by virtue of the company's control over that bank, it regulates the bank and not the holding company. Pp. 78-80.\n\n2. The application of the New Jersey Holding Company Act to a bank holding company that owns a bank with its principal place of business in Pennsylvania does not violate the Commerce Clause. Although that Act applies only to banks with their principal place of business in New Jersey, it affects the bank holding company by virtue of its ownership of a bank with its principal place of business in New Jersey. Thus, the Act regulates the bank holding company and the bank, but it does not treat the bank as part of New Jersey, for the Act does not require the bank holding company to locate in New Jersey or to conduct its banking activities there. The New Jersey Holding Company Act, therefore, is a legitimate exercise of the State's power to protect its own residents. Pp. 80-81.\n\n710 F.2d 1108, reversed.\n\nBURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which WHITE, POWELL, REHNQUIST, and O'CONNOR, JJ., joined. BRENNAN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL, J., joined, post, p. 81. BLACKMUN, J., took no part in the decision of the case.\n\nEdwin T. Halley argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Bruce I. Jacobs and Dennis M. McMahon.\n\nStephen D. Brown argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief was Charles J. O'Connor, Jr. *\n\n[ Footnote * ] Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American Bankers Association by Joseph A. Trillo, Edward R. Becker, and Donald L. Buckley; for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation by Samuel R. Robson and John G. Kester; and for the National Bank of Commerce by Richard M. Schwartz, William F. Hechinger, and George F. Moore.\n\nCHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of the Court.\n\nNew Jersey has enacted a statute that purports to regulate the manner in which a bank holding company that controls a state-chartered bank with its principal place of business in New Jersey, may divest itself of that control. The question presented is whether such a statute is constitutional in its application to a bank holding company that controls a bank with its principal place of business in Pennsylvania.\n\nI\n\nThe New Jersey State Street Bank and Trust Company Holding Company Act of 1976 (Act) [477 U.S. 79, 81] established a regulatory scheme designed to protect the public from the consequences of bank holding companies' control of New Jersey banks. N. J. Stat. Ann. 54:3-12.1 to 54:3-12.6 (West Supp. 1987). Section 54:3-12.3 provides that\n\n"[a]ny holding company which is a subsidiary of an out-of-state bank holding company, or a holding company which is a subsidiary of an out-of-state bank holding company and which directly or indirectly controls any bank located in this State, shall submit to the Banking Department, and the department shall approve, a divestiture plan for the preservation and protection of the assets and liabilities of any bank or banks in this State in which such holding company has a controlling interest, and shall divest itself of such interest within a period of three years after the date such divestiture plan is approved." (Emphasis added.)\n\nIn December 1978, New Jersey's Banking Department promulgated regulations that incorporated by reference the statutory definition of "out-of-state holding company," which included "a corporation organized under the laws of any other state of the United States which controls a bank or banks located in New Jersey or which is a subsidiary of an out-of-state bank holding company which controls a bank or banks located in New Jersey." N. J. Admin. Code, Dept. of Banking, Div. of Banking and Insurance, Reg. No. 119.14, 4.1. Thus, the statutory provision defining the term "out-of-state holding company" was made part of the New Jersey regulatory scheme.\n\nIn 1981, the Banking Department ordered the State Street Bank and Trust Company, which is headquartered in New York, to divest itself of its controlling interests in two New Jersey banks: the State Street Bank and Trust Company of New Jersey, N. A. (State Street Bank), which has its principal place of business in New Jersey; and the State Street Bank and Trust Company of New York, N. A"