Image Credit: Angie B., Albuquerque, NM\n\nPeople feel alone when they don't have a purpose. They feel like they are nothing when they don't have something to do. They feel insecure because they feel like their life doesn't have a meaning. Without these feelings people will feel like they are a nobody. They will feel like their life is worthless. Without a purpose to live for it will be hard for people to be happy and be themselves. When people have no purpose to life they can be so unhappy. These feelings come up in people when they are very upset. People are less likely to be happy when they are alone. With being alone it makes it harder to have fun. Without fun in your life it makes it harder to have a positive attitude. With a positive attitude people will be able to live without fear. They will be able to live like they are in a good mood. With having a good mood people will not be sad and they will feel good about themselves. People will also feel happy when they have a good life. When people feel good about their life it will help people have a positive attitude. They will also be able to have a better life. It will be easier to have a better life without bad feelings. When people have a bad life it will make it harder for them to be happy. This is because their life is not the way they want it. It is very hard for people to be happy when they don't have the life they want. Without having the life they want they will not be happy. People who have a positive attitude will not feel so sad when their life isn't the way they want it. With having a positive attitude people will be able to feel happy. When they are happy it will help them to live a better life. With a better life they will be happier. It will be hard for people to be happy when their life isn't the way they want it. This is because people feel like their life is going wrong. When people feel like their life is going wrong they are less likely to be happy. People who are happy are more likely to be happy. When people are happy they will not be sad. People will not be sad when they are happy. With having a good attitude it will help people be happy. It will also help people to have a good life. People who have a good attitude will feel good about themselves. They will feel good about their life and will have a good life. With a good life they will feel good about themselves. People who feel good about themselves will not feel so sad. This is because they have a good life. They also have good friends. Having good friends will help people be happy. With having good friends people will be happier. People will be happier with good friends. They will also be happier with a good life. With a good life and good friends people will feel happy. It will be hard for people to be happy without a good life. With a good life people will be happier. It will also be hard for people to be happy without good friends. Without good friends people will feel less happy. This is because they have no one to talk to. People with a good life and good friends will feel more happy. It will be easy for people to be happy with a good life and good friends.