"From: Andrew Bartolozzi\n\nSent: April 7, 2006\n\nTo: rule-comments@sec.gov\n\nSubject: File No. SR-NASDAQ-2006-084 On behalf of MCM Fund Management Inc. ("MCM"), I respectfully request that the SEC approve SR-NASDAQ-2006-084, the proposed rules amendments to adopt the Financial Information Exchange ("FIX") protocol for NASDAQ transactions. The proposed rules amendments are consistent with a two-year pilot project conducted by the NASDAQ Market Services division. While this pilot project included only fixed-income securities, the FIX protocol is capable of supporting securities in all trading venues. I believe the FIX protocol offers several key advantages, including: (1) Minimizes latency: When market participants use FIX, they trade directly with one another, instead of indirectly through an intermediary. Because all data is exchanged in real-time, latency is minimized, allowing for quicker execution of trades. (2) Reduces network congestion: When market participants use FIX, the network that is used to route data is reduced, thus reducing network congestion. (3) Simplifies data integration: The FIX protocol is a universal data format that is used by all market participants. Thus, the data formats required to be shared by market participants, such as trade, quote, and last sale data, can be standardized, and the data can be formatted and sent in real-time. (4) Increases market transparency: The FIX protocol has a unique field that can contain an attribute for "transparency" of the message. This transparency field allows for the inclusion of the identity of the participants involved in the trade, along with other types of non-standard fields that can be specified by the market participant, and thus provide additional transparency to the market. (5) Allows for future expansion: The FIX protocol is not limited to the types of information that can be exchanged between market participants. New types of information can be added to the FIX protocol by each market participant as needed, and as new types of FIX implementations are developed, the ability to implement new types of messages will continue to expand. The FIX protocol will also be required by the SEC's Regulation NMS, as required by the recently passed Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we strongly support this legislation, we strongly encourage the SEC to mandate FIX by September 1, 2007, as opposed to the September 1, 2009, date specified by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We feel that requiring FIX earlier than required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act would help the market participants, and the NASDAQ market, transition to the FIX protocol more efficiently, and would be beneficial to investors. We would welcome the opportunity to discuss this matter with the staff. Respectfully, Andrew Bartolozzi Managing Director MCM Fund Management, Inc. 31 N. William St. 2nd Floor New York, NY 10004\n\nAndrew Bartolozzi\n\nOn April 7, 2006, MCM Fund Management Inc. sent the letter above to the SEC, and they made sure to attach copies of the following:\n\nLetter dated December 14, 2005, from the NASDAQ to market participants explaining the pilot project\n\nLetter dated January 5, 2006, from the NASDAQ to market participants outlining enhancements to the pilot project\n\nLetter dated January 9, 2006, from the NASDAQ to market participants announcing the suspension of the pilot project\n\nLetter dated March 1, 2006, from the NASDAQ to market participants explaining the resumption of the pilot project\n\nSummary of comments received by the NASDAQ during the pilot project\n\nWe've been waiting to see what the SEC's response to this letter was, and as of today, we finally have it!