When you say, "What does one pray? What is the pattern of Christian prayer?" You will find yourself in a completely different framework. The pattern of prayer is like this. Jesus taught us to begin with the Father in heaven. "Our Father, who art in heaven..." Jesus taught us to say to God the Father: "Our Father, who art in heaven..."\n\nNow what does this mean? What does it mean to begin with God in heaven? Does it mean to begin by asking God to send his son to come down from heaven? Does it mean to ask God to help the Holy Spirit to come down from heaven? Does it mean to ask God to make your heavenly Father to send his Son down from heaven? No. All these things we can and do ask for, but what is the point of beginning by asking God to send his Son and the Holy Spirit down from heaven? To begin with God in heaven means to begin with God, the source of all things. It means to begin with the origin, the fountain-head, the creator, the Father of the Son and the Holy Spirit. To begin with God in heaven means to begin with the source of the creation, the source of all things. To begin with God in heaven means to begin with the creator, the source of all things.\n\nIf God is the creator, what then? Then what is the pattern of Christian prayer? "Our Father, who art in heaven... thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven."\n\nSo there are two things: there is the pattern of creation and there is the pattern of will.\n\nThe pattern of creation is, that God said: "Let there be light." And there was light. That was the pattern of creation. That is the pattern of God's creative will.\n\nThe pattern of God's will is this: He said, "Let there be light..." He willed it, it was so. Then he said, "Let there be man in my image and likeness." He willed it, it was so. He said, "Let there be a son in my image and likeness." He willed it, it was so. He said, "Let there be a Spirit in my image and likeness." He willed it, it was so. The pattern of God's will is this: He said, "Let it be so," and it was so. He willed it and it was so.\n\nThen what? When you say to God: "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven," you say that in the will of God there is already light, there is already man in God's image, there is already a son in God's image, there is already the Holy Spirit in God's image. That means that you are already illumined, already in God's image, already a son in God's image, already illuminated with the Holy Spirit in God's image. When you say, "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven," you say that in God's will you already are illumined, you are already in God's image, you are already a son in God's image, you are already illuminated with the Holy Spirit in God's image. You say, "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." You say that in God's will you already are in God's image, you already are illumined, you already are a son in God's image, you already are illuminated with the Holy Spirit in God's image.\n\nThe pattern of creation is, that God said: "Let there be light." And there was light. The pattern of will is this: He said, "Let it be so," and it was so.\n\nThen what?\n\nThen what do you do? Then you say to God, "Father, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." When you say, "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven," you say that you are already in God's image, already illumined, already a son in God's image, already illuminated with the Holy Spirit in God's image. You say that you already are in God's image, you already are illumined, you already are a son in God's image, you already are illuminated with the Holy Spirit in God's image. Then what? When you say, "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven," you say, "Father, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." In other words, you say to God, "I accept Thy will, as it is in heaven."\n\nIf you say to God, "I accept Thy will, as it is in heaven," then you do this: you say to God, "Father, I want to accept Thy will, as it is in heaven. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." You want to be illumined, you want to be in God's image, you want to be a son in God's image, you want to be illuminated with the Holy Spirit in God's image. That means, you say to God: "I want to accept Thy will, as it is in heaven."\n\nYou say, "Father, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." Then what? Then you say to God, "Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." You say to God, "Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." You say to God, "Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven."\n\nNow what does this mean? This means that you say to God, "Father, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." You say to God, "Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." What does this mean? This means that in earth your will should be done in the same way as in heaven. This means that on earth your will should be done in the same way as in heaven. This means that on earth your will should be done in the same way as in heaven. What does this mean? This means that on earth your will should be done in the same way as in heaven.\n\nThen what? Then you say to God, "Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." Then you say to God, "Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." Then you say to God, "Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." Then you say to God,"