On July 14, 2016, John Swain, Dan Katcher, and Ryan Tipps conducted a webinar to discuss the ongoing tensions in public-sector collective bargaining and the potential for future conflicts. The panelists identified the need for unions to be proactive in developing a relationship with public officials at all levels of government, and the need for public officials to remain accountable to the electorate, and be proactive in their oversight of public sector bargaining.\n\nJohn Swain, The McGraw Professor of Law and the Chair of the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University, opened the discussion with a summary of public-sector bargaining.\n\nGovernments have traditionally used collective bargaining to determine the pay, benefits, and working conditions of public employees. The public sector is, however, a much smaller segment of the American workforce, which is becoming increasingly divided. Non-union employees in the private sector, by contrast, are making significant wage gains in the post-recession economy. And this divide, Professor Swain noted, will likely create further tension between the public sector and the private sector.\n\nCollective bargaining agreements between government employers and unions have traditionally served to benefit both parties, but Professor Swain indicated that today, these agreements are instead being utilized by both government employers and unions to determine who will be the dominant actor in public employment. The challenge, he noted, is that the same circumstances are unlikely to exist in both the public and private sectors.\n\nAs part of the public sector, Professor Swain explained, the long-term viability of these collective bargaining agreements is contingent on stable employment, and consequently, maintaining a work force that can afford to pay more in wages. In the private sector, however, government regulations such as minimum wages are not applicable, and there are fewer constraints on whether or not a company can close or move. Consequently, he noted, the private sector tends to have greater flexibility in responding to economic downturns. In other words, he noted, collective bargaining in the public sector is only possible in an environment of stability.\n\nUnions are also facing challenges in recruiting new members, including recruiting members from historically underrepresented groups. Even though people are becoming more aware of the economic gains for unionized workers, he noted, they are still reluctant to join unions.\n\nThese circumstances have lead to the reduction in the size and strength of public sector unions. Unionization rates in the public sector are at a 100-year low.\n\nProfessor Swain closed by noting that public sector unions are facing significant challenges in the near future, particularly in the areas of: (1) political action, (2) collective bargaining, and (3) recruitment. Professor Swain suggested that a significant portion of this challenge will lie in balancing the “power and fairness” within the collective bargaining process.\n\nDan Katcher, Vice President of Policy and General Counsel of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, began his discussion with a brief history of the right to strike in the United States. Strikes are not protected by the First Amendment, but they are still legal under federal labor law.\n\nIn terms of strikes in the public sector, Mr. Katcher explained that, traditionally, the courts have not seen these strikes as a threat to the public’s safety. On the contrary, he noted, the courts have seen them as a vital way for public employees to exercise their rights. However, in the last decade, there has been a trend toward laws that limit the right to strike.\n\nMr. Katcher provided several examples of current court cases involving public sector strikes, including strikes by unions and members of public safety organizations. The Supreme Court, he noted, has generally held that laws limiting the right to strike in the public sector are valid, if the restrictions are for legitimate government purposes, such as protecting public health and safety.\n\nMr. Katcher concluded that, in light of these developments, unions have developed new strategies for organizing in the public sector. These strategies, which include identifying sympathetic public officials and developing stronger relationships with public officials, are essential to the continued success of public sector unions.\n\nRyan Tipps, the Director of the Council of State Governments (CSG) Center for Best Practices and the former Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, concluded the panel discussion by describing how the United States has had a long history of labor unions and collective bargaining in the private sector, while having a much shorter history of labor unions and collective bargaining in the public sector. However, labor unions and collective bargaining have a rich history in the United States. He argued that it is time to embrace this history, and allow unions to contribute to a healthier economy.\n\nThe panel discussion concluded with a question and answer session, during which the panelists discussed strategies for unions to achieve a healthy balance of power and fairness in the collective bargaining process, and strategies for unions to organize in the public sector, particularly with regards to women and minorities.