Gambling Behavior and Behavior Control\n\nby Barbara L. Milrod, Ph.D.\n\nRecreational gambling, especially casino gambling, is a growing and significant industry in the United States. A growing number of families engage in some form of gambling as a leisure activity. A sizeable number of families visit a casino at least once a year. Increasing numbers of families engage in forms of gambling that do not require visits to a casino, but do require some type of Internet or computer connection. Families that are not recreational gamblers are likely to include at least one person who is a gambler, a gambler who also functions in some other major role in the family, such as as a spouse, parent, sibling, or grandparent. Therefore, even if gambling is not a regular family leisure activity, it is a part of life for a significant number of families.\n\nGiven that, how does the gambling industry want the public to think about gambling and its impact on families? How should the public be thinking about it? What impact does it have on families? What are some of the causes and symptoms of gambling-related problems?\n\nThe 2005 National Gambling Impact Study Commission, the most recent of a series of gambling impact studies, reported that the number of people who engage in some form of gambling each year has increased since the last study. In the most recent study, it was estimated that approximately 21% of the adult population has engaged in some form of gambling at least once during the course of a year.\n\nThe study found that while the majority of the population gambles for entertainment purposes, a smaller but significant minority gambles for money and may be at risk for developing a gambling problem.\n\nThe study also reported that most people are either unaware of the nature of pathological gambling or misperceive its prevalence. A significant minority of the population does not believe that pathological gambling exists or that it exists only in a relatively small percentage of the population.\n\nEven in cases where the public recognizes that gambling is a problem for some, the impact of gambling on family members is often minimized. Therefore, the topic of gambling and its impact on family members has become a popular topic among researchers and is the subject of several studies.\n\nFor example, Blaszczynski and McConaghy reported that most of the relatives of pathological gamblers and problem gamblers had been affected by the gambling and had been directly affected by the adverse financial consequences.\n\nThey also reported that the relatives of pathological gamblers had significantly more dysfunction in their lives than the relatives of the problem gamblers. Additionally, they found that there was a significantly greater prevalence of gambling in the relatives of the pathological gamblers.\n\nWilliams and colleagues also reported that pathological gambling had a negative impact on the families of pathological gamblers. In that study, the spouses of the pathological gamblers were most likely to report problems in their marriage. These problems included financial difficulties, difficulties with communication, and issues with dealing with the gambling.\n\nGiven that, we might ask ourselves how does this impact families?\n\nIn terms of family interactions and dynamics, gambling can affect families in many ways. Family members may be affected in different ways. Family members may also be affected at different levels. For example, some family members may not be impacted very much at all. Others may be affected more severely. Family members may also be affected in a way that is either beneficial or detrimental. For example, they may be affected in a way that is not particularly harmful to them, but does cause harm to others.\n\nLet's examine the impact of gambling on family members in more detail. First, let's take a look at the general impact on family members.\n\nThe Impact of Gambling on Family Members\n\nSome of the impact on family members may be similar to the impact that other problem behaviors, such as substance abuse, have on families. However, some aspects of the impact are also unique to gambling. Let's take a look at both the similarities and the differences.\n\nGeneral Impact\n\nIn general, the effects of gambling on family members can be broadly categorized into four major areas: financial impact, emotional impact, environmental impact, and cultural impact. These areas, and the individual effects within each area, are described below.\n\nFinancial Impact\n\nMost families in the United States struggle with money issues at some time during the course of their lives. Financial concerns can affect a family's ability to deal with other problems. They can also cause problems in and of themselves.\n\nWhen financial concerns arise as a result of gambling, family members may need to sacrifice other financial needs to meet the demands of the gambler. For example, the gambler may require family members to fund a large portion of his or her gambling activities. This may require the family to make difficult decisions about which expenses to cut back on or to borrow money.\n\nFamilies may also face financial difficulties as a result of the gambling of a member. For example, if a family member incurs debts or otherwise incurs financial problems as a result of gambling, the other family members may need to cover his or her debts. This can be costly.\n\nCultural Impact\n\nGambling in America has a long history. This history has influenced American society and culture in many ways. One way it has influenced American society is through the creation of "gaming" communities. These communities, which are primarily located in the western part of the United States, are based on gambling.\n\nGambling as a cultural activity has evolved over time, and has become a part of our culture and entertainment culture. As a result, there is now a certain level of expectation in American culture about recreational gambling.\n\nEnvironmental Impact\n\nSome people believe that gambling in a casino is a more "safe" and "controlled" environment than recreational gambling in the home. While this may be true, there are some dangers to this type of environment. Casinos can sometimes be a location where crime and violence occur. Families who engage in this form of gambling, then, can be negatively impacted in a variety of ways by the environment in which they gamble.\n\nEmotional Impact\n\nEmotions play an important role in all aspects of life, including in families. The emotional impact of gambling is both obvious and subtle. It is both dramatic and subtle. Families and family members may react emotionally to the gambling of a family member.\n\nFamilies may also react emotionally in response to a gambling-related problem. Some family members may respond with fear or anxiety about the problem. Others may respond with shame, guilt, or embarrassment.\n\nThe emotional impact of gambling on a family can be quite extensive. Some family members may be quite negatively affected. Others may be less affected. Family members who are more affected by a gambling problem may, in turn, cause other family members to become more negatively affected.\n\nIn other words, the gambling problem of one family member can have a negative"