Rob McLaughlin and his team at Solstice Technologies have provided WITS with complete web development and hosting services for nearly five years. Throughout this time, they have consistently provided outstanding service and exceptional value. I’ve been impressed with their technical ability, their ability to interpret our needs and their willingness to do whatever it takes to get the job done right. I know that I can count on Rob and his team to respond quickly and professionally when issues arise and they are always quick to communicate a plan for remedying any problems. We appreciate the value of our working relationship with Solstice and I would recommend them without hesitation to any organization that needs the services they offer.\n\nBill Hoffman\n\nWITS\n\nRob McLaughlin and his team at Solstice Technologies have provided WITS with complete web development and hosting services for nearly five years. Throughout this time, they have consistently provided outstanding service and exceptional value. I’ve been impressed with their technical ability, their ability to interpret our needs and their willingness to do whatever it takes to get the job done right. I know that I can count on Rob and his team to respond quickly and professionally when issues arise and they are always quick to communicate a plan for remedying any problems. We appreciate the value of our working relationship with Solstice and I would recommend them without hesitation to any organization that needs the services they offer.\n\nRob McLaughlin and his team at Solstice Technologies have provided WITS with complete web development and hosting services for nearly five years. Throughout this time, they have consistently provided outstanding service and exceptional value. I’ve been impressed with their technical ability, their ability to interpret our needs and their willingness to do whatever it takes to get the job done right. I know that I can count on Rob and his team to respond quickly and professionally when issues arise and they are always quick to communicate a plan for remedying any problems. We appreciate the value of our working relationship with Solstice and I would recommend them without hesitation to any organization that needs the services they offer.\n\nBill Hoffman\n\nWITS