Anglo-Norman\n\nThe Anglo-Normans were the medieval ruling class in England, composed mainly of a mixture of ethnic Anglo-Saxons and Normans, following the Norman conquest. A small number of Normans had earlier befriended future Anglo-Saxon King of England, Edward the Confessor, and his claim to the throne, and had helped him return to England in 1041. When Edward died in 1066, the Normans ignored his heir, the dispossessed Edgar Ætheling, and brought Harold Godwinson to the throne, thereby starting the Norman conquest of England. Over the following years, Norman kings conquered and assimilated some of the native ruling classes; some of whom, like William the Conqueror, adopted these new "Norman" cultural practices, manners and ideas, became "Anglicised" and gradually lost their distinctiveness. For a time Normans – and the Anglo-Normans – ruled a vast kingdom, "Christendom", including England, Wales, southern Ireland, Normandy, Anjou, Maine, Touraine, Aquitaine, Toulouse, Provence, and more. The Norman ruling class spoke Norman French and, in England, used the Anglo-Norman language.\n\nIn 1130, under King Henry I, laid claim to the English crown, which was denied him by the English. The war that followed was known as the "Norman Conquest" and lasted for many decades, establishing Normandy as a power with strong influence in both France and England. The Channel Islands, as well as part of Maine, were ceded to the King of France in return for his aid in this campaign. By 1204, the English had lost almost all of their territories in France, with the exception of Gascony, but political ties between the two countries were maintained through the English kings granting fiefdoms to French lords, many of whom were Englishmen, who held lands as "tenants-in-chief". \n\nThe Norman aristocracy spoke Norman French and first established a large territorial power base in eastern Normandy. By 1100, with England largely subdued, a further significant expansion of Norman power took place through the acquisition of the "Duchy of Brittany" and surrounding territory by William II of England, first Duke of Normandy, the second-in-line to the English throne, as well as through marriage to the daughter of the king of England, Matilda of Flanders. By the time of William's death in 1087, he was the dominant landholder and most powerful prince in England. His widow, Matilda of Flanders, married the next English king, Henry I, in 1100. When Henry died in 1135, Matilda continued to rule England as regent for their young son, King Henry II, while her half-brother, Robert, became "Duke of Normandy", which he ruled until 1144.\n\nIn 1152 the Treaty of Wallingford stipulated that the English crown would pass through the female line. Stephen of Blois and Henry of Anjou, the great grandsons of William the Conqueror, faced each other across the "Angevin Empire", in France and in England. Each claimed to be the rightful king, resulting in a period known as the "Anarchy". The reigns of both Stephen and Henry saw major changes in the structure of government, with Stephen introducing the innovations of the "Charter of Liberties" and founding the "Curia Regis" or Royal Council.\n\nIn the following century, the Anglo-Norman state was attacked by the Scots from the north, the Flemish from the west and the Irish from the south. The Anglo-Norman realm would, in the end, prove to be the survivor, the last vestige of Anglo-Saxon rule in England. The destruction of the Anglo-Norman elite by the Scottish and Welsh revolts during the Wars of the Roses in the fifteenth century, and the longstanding feud between the houses of York and Lancaster, removed most of the Norman aristocracy, leaving the English monarchy as the major power in the British Isles. The end of the Anglo-Norman dynasties in England also marks the start of the "Middle Ages" in that country.\n\nThe Normans adopted many customs, such as fashions in clothing, and other items of "luxury", which they introduced to the court of Edward the Confessor, but most importantly, the Norman Conquest had a profound impact on language in England. The Norman language, now known as the Norman language or Anglo-Norman, had been introduced"