One Enchanted Evening\n\nOne Enchanted Evening is a 1937 American comedy film directed by W. S. Van Dyke and starring Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy. Written by Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett, the film is about a prince of an impoverished European country who wants to marry a commoner instead of a royal from a wealthy country. The film also features a young Jane Wyatt and Charles Coburn.\n\nPrince Alexander of the kingdom of Salzburg and his best friend Bertrand De Vries travel to Paris, where they find themselves short of money. When Alexander runs into moneylender Poirot, who is holding a letter of credit he gave to Bertrand, he tells him that he and Bertrand are French. Poirot asks him to participate in a robbery of the Louvre, with Alexander providing a distraction.\n\nDuring the crime, the two men and some accomplices knock out museum guard Roux, and Alexander dons his uniform. However, Alexander has been spotted by the museum director, Poirot, and policeman Jules Pujol. Alexander flees, but is arrested. As the two men attempt to get Alexander back to the Louvre, they get in a car accident. Pujol rescues Alexander and escorts him to the hospital, but cannot find his partner.\n\nMeanwhile, Alexander wakes up to find himself nursed by Jacqueline Dessalines, a young American woman. In the confusion, Alexander had told Jacqueline that he is the crown prince of Austria, and that he will make her his queen when they return to his country.\n\nWhile the real prince is having plastic surgery to repair the damage done to his face, Alexander and Jacqueline fall in love. However, she does not believe he is a prince. At the same time, two of his friends who were involved in the robbery attempt to woo Jacqueline as a way of keeping her quiet.\n\nMeanwhile, when his plastic surgery is complete, Alexander returns to his father, the king, and asks for money so that he can marry Jacqueline. The king says he will only give him the money if he first marries a woman from an extremely wealthy family. Alexander manages to persuade the father of an extremely rich woman, Madame de Cabriac, to lend him a dowry for his fictitious bride.\n\nAt the wedding, Jacqueline realizes Alexander is marrying another woman. At the reception, the jealous Jacqueline takes an apple and tries to throw it at Alexander. The police, who have been searching for the criminal Alexander, burst in and believe that Jacqueline is the one who tried to throw the apple. She is arrested. The police captain asks Madame de Cabriac to identify the prince, but the prince claims to be "Gaston de France". The real Gaston de France shows up at that moment.\n\nIn the jail, Jacqueline recognizes Pujol and asks him to get her out. When Pujol sees Alexander, he immediately realizes he has been fooled. He sneaks into the prince's room and gets the plastic surgery records from the hospital, and Pujol takes Alexander to the jail.\n\nMadame de Cabriac arrives and accuses Alexander of impersonating Gaston. However, the real Gaston shows up with the records. Madame de Cabriac is exposed as a fraud herself, since she claimed to be a member of the de Cabriac family when she was actually an orphan named Annie Duveau.\n\nThe film ends with Jacqueline getting the real Gaston, and Alexander getting Jacqueline.\n\n\nA popular singing group at the time, Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald starred together in a number of films, and this one was no exception. Other films they starred together in included "Rose Marie" (1936), "Sweethearts" (1938) and "Bitter Sweet" (1940).\n\nThe film was nominated for two Academy Awards: Best Music, Original Song for "A Toast to Romance" by Richard A. Whiting and Johnny Mercer, and Best Music, Score of a Dramatic or Comedy Picture. The song "The End of a Perfect Day" by Herbert Stothart was also nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Song but lost out to "You'll Never Know" by Richard A. Whiting and Raymond Egan for the film "Love Affair".\n\nThe film was remade as a musical in 1948, starring MacDonald and Eddy once again.\n\nThe film was adapted into a radio play on the September 20, 1947, broadcast of "Screen Director's Playhouse" with Van Johnson and Angela Lansbury in the roles played by MacDonald and Eddy in the film.\n\n\nStreaming audio\n