In many places there are no longer any young men at all. According to the World Health Organization, "in countries with very low fertility, the proportion of young people may halve in the next 40 years". At this rate, by 2100 a majority of the world's population will be over 50. We will then have to find a way to accommodate the needs and aspirations of an unprecedented number of very old people in a society that has been moulded for decades around the needs of youth.\n\nNowhere is this more true than in Japan, the world's fastest-ageing country. The greying of Japan – "silver tsunami" or "grey goo" as it is known – is by now well known. There are a number of reasons for this. Japanese have one of the longest life expectancies in the world, with women expected to live to 87 and men to 80. Meanwhile, a long-standing national emphasis on having small families and long working hours – for both men and women – have kept the birth rate below replacement levels. And Japan's postwar economic miracle has not been kind to the young. The country's population is shrinking, partly because of a low birth rate and partly because of a high level of immigration.\n\nBut what is less well known is that this graying of Japan – and other nations such as Germany, China, South Korea and Thailand – is not just due to longer life expectancy and lower birth rates. There is another factor in play, and one that could have dramatic implications: very low fertility rates, particularly among younger women. It's estimated that around a quarter of the population will be aged over 65 by 2050.\n\nIn Japan, the "total fertility rate" (the number of children a woman is likely to have in her lifetime) is just 1.4 – and has been for the past 20 years. Among women aged between 15 and 24, the rate is even lower at 0.8, lower even than the famously low rate in Germany (which is 1.38). And in Tokyo, that rate is even lower at 0.7. By contrast, in 2010, the average rate in Europe was 1.6. The fertility rate in England and Wales in 2010 was 1.9.\n\nThe world's media are full of breathless stories about Japan's crisis of depopulation. Last year, an article in the International Business Times said that "Japanese women are rejecting marriage and motherhood at a staggering rate". In the New York Times, another piece claimed that Japan is "exporting its young women" and is now "facing a demographic crisis of epic proportions". More soberly, the BBC's business editor Robert Peston has written: "Without a dramatic increase in its birth rate, Japan will face economic and social ruin."\n\nThe sense of panic is understandable. "The number of young people will go down by two-thirds by 2035," says demographer Toshio Kanazawa. "That means not only a decline in the size of the workforce but a dramatic increase in the number of retirees. Who will pay for them?"\n\nThe answer is "women" – or more specifically, their wombs. And in this, there is something not quite right.\n\nIn Tokyo, I meet Nana, a 29-year-old who is employed in the financial sector. She is smartly dressed in a suit and speaks good English. She tells me she has a boyfriend and they are very happy. She is, she says, the typical "She Economy" – a young woman working in the city and her parents are very pleased. "They want me to settle down," she says, "and have children." But she's not so sure.\n\n"It's too late," she says. "I've got to think of my future. And I just don't know if I could afford it – having children. I'd need a bigger flat, and pay for childcare, and a new car."\n\nFor Nana, and for many Japanese women like her, the economic reality of having children is daunting. "I have two brothers," she says, "and they have wives and children. The wives don't work, and they have one or two children. One of my sisters-in-law doesn't even work outside the house. They don't have much money, but my parents love them. They are very happy. So I know what my parents want for me. But it's impossible. I can't do it."\n\nThis is a scenario that is playing out in homes across the country. The situation is, in many respects, rather unique. As Peston points out, Japanese women who stay in employment tend to have children later. As a result, while there is a generation of Japanese in their early 30s who have given up on having children, there is a generation of younger women who are still trying to get pregnant.\n\n"I think it's pretty much impossible to have two or three children in Tokyo," says Seiko, a 35-year-old marketing executive. "I don't think I could afford it. You have to pay so much for childcare. And then, you've got to give up work. I just couldn't do it.\n\n"But, still, my mother is pressuring me to have children. If you have a boyfriend, you can't get married. It's impossible. You have to marry first, then have children. So, if you are a working woman, you have to get married, have children, and then stay at home with your children. That's it. And that's what everyone wants. That's the ideal."\n\nAt the root of this ideal is Japan's traditional gender-role society – one that has stayed remarkably the same since the end of the second world war. It is not, perhaps, surprising that such a rigid society is under strain. And not only for women. It is also under strain for men.\n\n"Women in Japan are not treated well," says Toshio Kanazawa. "They don't earn a lot of money. They are discriminated against in many ways. That's why there aren't enough babies."\n\nNot everyone agrees. "I don't think it's true," says Nana, who, I've noticed, has referred to herself as "boku" (which means "I") all evening, rather than the more feminine "watashi" (which means "I"). "Women in Japan are strong. They do well at work and they earn a lot of money. They can do everything. So why should they have children?"\n\nIn some respects, Nana has a point. Japan is a country in which young women are breaking glass ceilings. The number of women in senior management in Japan's 3,000 largest companies is at a record high. And in 2013, the World Economic Forum rated Japan the fourth most "gender-equal" nation in the world.\n\nThe Japanese government has encouraged this development. Ever since the Second World War, successive prime ministers have tried to get more women into the workplace and have even gone so far as to tell men to "say goodbye to their bonuses if they refuse to let their wives and daughters work outside the home".\n\nBut while some Japanese women are finding their way into senior positions, many are also facing a harsh reality: most large Japanese corporations have an unofficial "marriage bar" that prohibits the promotion of women who are married and have children. This is particularly true of men. According to a study by the Japanese government, 61.5 per cent of male managers are married. By contrast, only 42.2 per cent of female managers are married. This means that women with children can be in a very difficult position, because – as Shihoko Goto of the Wilson Center points out – they face a choice between marriage and career. And that is not a choice that men face.\n\n"If you look at people in their 30s," says Seiko, "I think many of them are not getting married and having children. If you don't have children, you have more time and money to enjoy your life. So why not?\n\n"I don't think that women are rejecting marriage and family," she says. "It's just that if you want children and you are a career woman, it's impossible. There is no way. You can't do both. And so you have to make a choice. Either you go for your career or you go for marriage and family. That's what I think is happening."\n\n"In Japan," says Goto, "it's very difficult for men and women to be able to balance work and family. So, if you are a career woman, you will have to sacrifice family. That's the problem. That's why so many women don't have children. Because they want to focus on their career."\n\nThis is a view echoed by Ai Kato, a 29-year-old tax accountant. "It's true that if you work in a large Japanese company, you cannot get married or have children if you want to keep your job," she says. "That's the reality. It's a matter of the company culture. It's difficult to balance both. And so people are having fewer children."\n\nJapan has never really known anything else. "Since the Meiji era [from 1868 to 1912] Japan's population has been very stable," says Kanazawa. "So they think that is normal. But it's not. If you look at Germany, their population is falling too, but they are getting immigrants. And in the US and the UK, the population is stable, but people are having more children. So there are many different types of demographic change, and Japan is one of the most extreme."\n\nWhat is less clear is why this is happening. The popular explanation is that Japan is a victim of the phenomenon known as the "demographic time bomb" or "