Gonzalo ‘ZeRo’ Barrios, the best Super Smash Bros. for Wii U player in the world, had been competing in Apex for years, and for the most part his reputation remained untarnished by upsets. But this year, things were different. In Apex 2017, he was defeated for the first time since 2015, eliminated in pools by a man that he once conquered: Samuel ‘Dabuz’ Buzby.\n\nThe question on the minds of many Smash fans was: Why did Dabuz defeat ZeRo, the player who has never been beaten in this game in tournament?\n\nWell, according to Dabuz himself, it was a relatively simple answer.\n\n“I can speak for myself, but one thing that I have definitely noticed is I’ve been playing with a controller for longer,” Dabuz said. “I was playing a lot with the Gamecube controller in 2012 and 2013, and he was mainly playing with the Wii U controller. That’s a big thing, and I think that in general I know how to read his tendencies a little bit better.”\n\nThe controller is a big factor because of the way that Smash for Wii U is played. Because the game was released on the Wii U, it is not played with a controller that has buttons like the PS4 controller, but rather a gamepad with a touchscreen.\n\nZeRo plays with a Gamecube controller with his right hand on the directional pad, and his left hand on the A and B buttons. Because of this, he has to learn the way he plays on that controller and how to switch to it from a standard Wii U gamepad. Dabuz, on the other hand, is more used to the standard controller, which requires more precision and speed to accomplish the same things.\n\nDabuz and ZeRo also play in different regions, which are played on different stages. For example, Dabuz plays on the East Coast, which has the Dream Land stage. This stage is the most neutral stage, and a player who has grown up on that stage would have an edge on a player who was more familiar with the other stages in the game.\n\nZeRo, on the other hand, plays on the West Coast, where the counterpick stages are often Dream Land 64 and Smashville. These stages can change the way a player plays, especially the super defensive style that ZeRo often employs.\n\nThere are also a few other things that can throw a player off their game, including the noises of the crowd and the pressure of being at the top. In a tournament where every person is trying to eliminate you, it can cause even the best to have a momentary lapse in focus and lose a match they should have won.\n\nThese are all things that have affected ZeRo, but they are things that he can get past. Because he is the best, the biggest target and a huge crowd favorite, it is unlikely that the crowd will stop cheering for him any time soon. And when he has a momentary lapse in focus, his playstyle is based around having more than one good option, and his tech skill is such that he can often do something even when he isn’t at his best.\n\nZeRo will be at CEO next week, and this is his chance to reclaim his title as best in the world.\n\nCover photo by Robert Paul via Twitter