With his four seasons in Detroit, Joe Dumars made the Detroit Pistons into a model of consistency and success, with two trips to the Eastern Conference Finals, including a Finals appearance in 2004. However, in his 15 years as president of basketball operations, the Pistons went into decline.\n\nOn April 9, Dumars was relieved of his duties as the Pistons president. In the subsequent months, Dumars went back and forth about whether he would remain with the Pistons in some capacity, but according to a new report from the Detroit News, Dumars is now prepared to explore other opportunities.\n\nAccording to sources, Dumars has made it known that he is ready and willing to work for another NBA franchise, preferably one that’s closer to his residence in metro Detroit. The Seattle SuperSonics is one of the teams Dumars has been monitoring and, according to sources, the former Pistons president would have interest in serving as general manager.\n\nWhile Seattle has been rumored to be looking for a new GM, they hired former Minnesota Timberwolves assistant general manager, Sam Presti, as the new general manager earlier this month.\n\nAccording to the report, Dumars would also be interested in working as a consultant for the Pistons. The Seattle report comes as Pistons owner Tom Gores has reportedly been looking for a new team president since firing the organization’s vice chairman, Bob Wentz, earlier this month.\n\nIt will be interesting to see if Dumars receives a job offer from another NBA team or stays with the Pistons in a lesser capacity. Since his departure from the Pistons, there have been several reports of teams looking to hire him.\n\nIn his 15 years in Detroit, Dumars helped turn the Pistons into a perennial Eastern Conference contender, but in recent years, he has come under scrutiny for questionable trades and poor draft picks. While there have been plenty of bright spots for Dumars during his time in Detroit, the recent years have been anything but stellar.\n\nNevertheless, Dumars’ career cannot be called a failure. Despite the recent years of decline, he helped build the Pistons into a legitimate title contender and championship team. He helped deliver two titles to Detroit and four NBA Finals appearances. As GM, Dumars made shrewd trades and drafted future stars in Grant Hill and Ben Wallace. The Pistons won 50 or more games every year from the 2000-01 season through the 2003-04 season, including two consecutive trips to the NBA Finals in 2004 and 2005.\n\nAfter some rough years at the end of his Pistons tenure, it appears Dumars is ready to return to an NBA front office and further his career.