Ion beam studies of materials\n\nIon beam studies of materials (also known as ion beam analysis or IBA) is a discipline that aims to determine the microstructure of solids. Ion beam studies of materials use mass spectrometry to study materials. Ion beam analysis is the name used for the techniques developed to study the solid materials with either a gas or a particle beam. Particle beams are commonly produced by ion guns or by secondary ion mass spectrometry. For high resolution, single particle mass spectrometry (called single particle IBA) or time of flight (TOF) instruments are employed. For many studies, electron microscopes can be used with appropriate detectors.\n\nSingle particle mass spectrometry was invented by Herb Guyer and Edward A. Heineman at Cornell University in 1953. This technique was the foundation of the field of ion beam analysis. This technique has been used to study a wide range of materials including metals, ceramics, glasses, organics and polymers.\n\nIn this technique the ion beam is focused to a small spot size on the sample, either by focusing in a magnetic or an electrostatic field or by being focused by electrostatic fields in a multielectrode system. The beam is then scanned over the surface of the sample. For each sample point, a mass spectrum of the sample material is obtained. The signals from the individual elements in the sample are then compared to each other in order to determine the composition and/or structure of the sample. This is because the signals are characteristic of the elements from which they are produced. The process of matching up the signals is called deconvolution. In this technique, the detector signal is measured only when a particle of the beam is detected.\n\nThe disadvantage of this technique is that it requires much more time to measure each sample point compared to scanning probe microscopes (which use electron beams).\n\nThe electron microscope with a detector attached to it can be used as an IBA tool. It is very useful to study the microstructure of ceramics and glasses.\n\nThe technique was developed at Cornell University and its name was coined by Thomas Vale in 1959. In electron microscope IBA, the sample is placed on a thin window and a beam of electrons is directed at it. The beam of electrons is either the electron beam itself or the secondary electron beam produced by a beam of primary electrons.\n\nWhen the electron beam is directed at the sample, some of the electrons are absorbed by the sample. This produces electrons inside the material and some ions. The ions are extracted by an electric field and are accelerated. The electrons emitted from the ions are detected. The detector may be a microchannel plate (MCP) detector or an electron multiplier.\n\nIn these systems the electron beam is accelerated between two plates. As"