"LeTourneau University\n\nThe Laboratory School of LeTourneau University, is a fully accredited, college preparatory school for grades 5–12. It is located on the campus of LeTourneau University in Longview, Texas, USA. It is the only Christian high school on a university campus in East Texas. \n\nThe school serves approximately 240 students and employs 30 full-time faculty.\n\nIt has a Board of Directors, president, vice-president, and secretary/treasurer. The executive board members are the chair of the board, secretary/treasurer, vice-president, president, and alumni trustee.\n\nThe laboratory school offers a high school education on a university campus. LeTourneau University’s Laboratory School offers a college preparatory academic program with emphasis on college placement, university transfer, and entry-level employment. The school encourages its students to prepare for a variety of careers. Students are taught in the classroom by university faculty members, who also serve as role models for students. In addition, students have access to the various clubs, activities, and career guidance offered on the university campus. \n\nHigh school students receive intensive preparation for the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills (TAKS) examinations. Teachers emphasize the need to work hard in order to get into the college or university of their choice. Students also take dual credit college courses offered through the university.\n\nStudents receive a free meal and snack each school day. In addition, most students take their lunch to class. School days are typically from 8:00am-3:00pm. A student bus system transports students from the dorms to the campus. \n\nThe Laboratory School of LeTourneau University was established in 1965 as an extension of the College of Engineering at LeTourneau University. Students entering the laboratory school have already successfully completed two years of high school. The majority of students are at least 16 years old. They come to the laboratory school from East Texas, as well as from other states and countries. A school mission statement guides the school’s development and operation. \n\nThe primary purpose of the laboratory school is to provide a Christian education for students who wish to prepare for college. The secondary purpose is to provide a program that prepares students for a career in engineering, and other technical fields, in order that they might more effectively serve the Church. \n\nThe Laboratory School of LeTourneau University is accredited by the Texas Education Agency (TEA) and is a member of the Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools (TAPPS). \n\n