"In this section we describe and analyze the effects of different problems on the model performance. In particular we consider the following problems: the serial position effect, the order effect, the semantic (in)sensitivity, and the distance effect.\n\nFigure 6.16 shows an example of text results of three sequences of three sentences. The whole process of filling and querying a WBS model is shown in Figure 6.17.\n\nWe can observe that in all three sequences the first sentence (“A citizen of A is driving a car”) is more frequently retrieved than the second sentence (“A citizen of B is driving a car”). The number of retentions for the first sentence is also higher than the number of retrievals for the second sentence, which can be attributed to the lexical and syntactic differences between these two sentences.\n\nAnother common problem in short sentences is the inter-sentence association: if a WBS model is designed to store sentences and not words, then the grammatical order of the sentences is kept in the model. Thus, the sentences that have the same word but a different order in the two sentences will be retrieved as if they had the same word. Figure 6.18 shows an example of sentences with the same words but a different order. As expected, the same sentences will have a higher number of retentions than the same words in the same order.\n\nThe serial position effect can be observed when words that occur in a specific position in the sentences are more retrieved than the same words that occur in different positions. This effect can be attributed to the influence of the semantic context on the recognition of the words that are at the same position in different sentences, and the words that are not in the same position have a different semantic context that makes them not to be recognized as if they were in the same position. Figure 6.19 shows an example of sentences with the same words in the same order but with a different position in each sentence. In this example, the word “of” in the position 5 of the first sentence is more retrieved than the same word in the position 7 of the second sentence, and the word “of” in the position 3 of the second sentence is more retrieved than the same word in the position 6 of the third sentence. This effect is more noticeable when the word “of” is repeated.\n\nIn this section, we present the results of a search on the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) [44] with the retrieved words and their respective sentences in a sentence. For each sentence, the average of the values of the retrieval frequencies for all the words in the sentence is computed. We show in Figure 6.20 the relative frequencies of the average values for each word-type for all the sentences of the corpus.