The Affair at the Victory Ball\n\nThe Affair at the Victory Ball is a novel by English author Agatha Christie, first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 1 February 1937 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at seven shillings and sixpence (7/6) and the US edition at $2.00.\n\nThe plot revolves around the wife of a man who committed suicide, who then marries the man whom she believes to be the killer. He turns out to be a murderer and, following a dinner party at their house, she is murdered. The title is taken from a poem by A. E. Housman, "When the lamp is shattered", from "A Shropshire Lad".\n\nThe "Times Literary Supplement" of 3 February 1937, in a favourable review, concluded: "The subject is in its very nature one that cannot be dealt with without crudity. Mrs. Christie has succeeded in handling it, if not with delicate tact, at any rate with discretion. The reader is not repelled by any insistence on horror." The reviewer for "The Guardian" of 1 February 1937, was also positive, writing, "Agatha Christie has done what few women novelists have had the courage to do – treated frankly, with detachment, and almost scientific detachment, of a subject which is very near to all women's hearts. Mrs. Christie is much more than a detective story writer; she is a social psychologist."\n\nIn 1963, the novel was the third to be dramatized in the anthology series "The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes", starring Margaret Lockwood in the lead role. Christie adapted the novel herself.\n\nIn 1973, the novel was adapted for a British television series starring David Niven and Joanna David.\n\nIn 1995, the novel was adapted for an American television movie starring Holly Hunter and Harvey Keitel.\n\n"The Affair at the Victory Ball" was first serialised in the US in "Collier's Weekly" in six parts from 18 August to 22 September 1936, and in the UK in the "London Evening News" in six instalments from 1 August to 12 August 1937. In 1938, the novel was also serialised in Australia in the "Women's Weekly".\n\n\nThe novel was adapted into a British television film in 1973.\n\n