Singapore is a big city. Too big, some might say. One of the nice things about this small, tightly-controlled island is that the government keeps the population contained in small, well-defined areas, or “estates”. And if you know anything about me, you know I love it when things are tightly controlled. But the trouble is that most of the estates are quite old and, therefore, cramped. So Singapore is often ranked near the top in the dubious “quality of living” lists. But it’s a small price to pay for the island’s many other virtues. And like I said, Singaporeans know what they are doing.\n\nOne thing that they have done is devise the wonderfully named “queue jump lanes” for the MRT (subway). And the way that it works is simple: instead of everyone using a bunch of doors to get on and off the train, the doors are grouped by destination and one door in each group is for the “queue jump” lane. The “jumpers” simply get in line to board the train at a set of doors that they are waiting at and if enough people are waiting behind them (they have to be at least three or four), then the train doors open for them and they can board the train.\n\nBut what makes this so great is that the MRT station doesn’t really have any huge lines. Everyone is in the same line to board the train and it works very efficiently. And because the commuters are all in the same line, the stations don’t get too crowded and everyone gets on and off the train quickly. And it’s such a simple, elegant solution to the age-old problem of waiting in line to board a train. But it has to be done in a very organized manner or it will not work. And Singaporeans are good at organizing things. And they are good at following instructions. So it works.\n\nThis is why Singaporean officials now have big plans to clean up the Internet in their island state. They are just following orders. You see, Singapore is a clean and neat place, like an apartment or a house. And it’s a small island with lots of people. And if you have people living together and living closely together, you will have problems with things like personal space, personal hygiene and cleanliness. And Singapore has rules for these things, just like any other well-ordered and tidy city. And because of these rules, it is a good place to live. And the Internet is a wild and wooly place that needs to be tamed.\n\nThe government has already started to act against sites with porn and gambling. But the new, bold and determined, Internet-cleanup effort has begun. The effort will tackle sites that “advocate homosexuality, obscenity, violence, terrorism or any other illicit activities.” And with those loose guidelines, I’m sure the government will be able to take down all sorts of sites. But Singapore is a good place to live and it should be a good place to surf.\n\nI’ve spent the last few years cleaning up the sites I have on the Internet, as well as cleaning up myself. I’ve stopped going to a therapist because I feel good. I’ve stopped going to AA meetings because I’m no longer an alcoholic. And I’ve stopped going to NA meetings because I’m no longer a drug addict. And now I’m sure that I will never be at a gambling site again because I’m no longer a gambler. And I’m sure that I will never see any sites with porn, but that’s just because I’m too lazy to look for it.\n\nAnd I’m not advocating that people with any of those problems should try to change. Those things are just the bad in my life. But I know that I am on the right track and I am making progress. And I have not been to a therapist in two months and I have not been to an AA meeting in over three months. And I have not been to a NA meeting in more than a year. And I am clean and I feel great.\n\nI think that I’ll be getting to bed early tonight. It’s been a big day.