I had three requests for it the other night at my last appearance at our local British Car Night at the local pub, but I said no. "No", I said, "I cannot in good conscience drive a Morris Minor." I may have been wearing some sort of red cross armband at the time.\n\nSee, I was there to talk about the Humber, the vehicle that I restored. You may not think that you'd have trouble remembering a simple, if unusual, name like that, but the Humber isn't one of the more familiar marques. You don't really see Humber models on the road, nor do you find them at your local autocross. But it's a long story.\n\nI grew up in the late '60s and early '70s, and a lot of my friends had small cars. All had Chevys or Chryslers. I had a small car too, but it was a Ford Anglia.\n\nThe Anglia was, at the time, one of Ford's new "compact" cars. When I got it, it was the sportier version of the compact Ford, with a spiffy two-tone paint scheme. It was small and fairly light, but I loved it and it made me a part of my social group. It had an appealing vintage look. But then I got the Humber.\n\nI saw it one day in the parking lot of my college, which was known as an art school. It was brown, had a real body and glass, a nice interior and an engine under the hood. It had hubcaps with those little wings. It was cool. It was interesting. It was British.\n\nI took a drive in it and it was, well, wobbly. But so was I, so it was hard to tell which was wobblier, me or the car. So I got the owner's phone number and called him and we haggled a bit and I bought it.\n\nYou don't really find many Humber sedans. They were more of a taxi cab/coupe type of vehicle. In England, they were made by the Rootes Group and in the U.S. they were imported and sold by Graham-Paige, which was a small automobile manufacturer that competed with the much larger GM, Ford and Chrysler companies.\n\nI guess the main reason I didn't want to talk about the Humber was that the car was unusual and, to the people who don't know cars, it would be hard to explain the basics. I didn't want to take the time, really. I was there to talk about the Humber as a sports car.\n\nFirst off, the Humber, by modern standards, is tiny. When I got it, I had to keep the clutch pushed in a bit and push on the accelerator at the same time to get it to go in gear. It's the same story with reverse. After it got the electric fuel pump, I never touched the clutch except to put it in reverse. And it had a three-speed manual on the column with a shifter that moved laterally, not vertically.\n\nThe car was made in England by Humber. It was a Rootes Group model and so were the Sunbeam, Singer and Hillman. A bit of trivia: The same folks who owned the Humber company also owned the Rootes Group, the company that made the Hillman Minx, a car that was a sort of English answer to the VW Beetle.\n\nThe Humber was a grand tourer, designed for touring, and not for hauling. As such, it was light, weighing about a ton and a half, which was the weight of the VW Beetle. It was a nice-looking car and the body was an aircraft-inspired monocoque structure, a term that would impress most people who don't know cars, but doesn't do a whole lot to tell you much about what it was.\n\nMost people would see it and say, "Wow, what a neat little car." They'd say it wasn't very powerful. They'd say it was nice looking, but underpowered. They'd say they didn't know much about it and, because it was so light, they might say it was a little bit dangerous. And that's where I'd be left hanging.\n\nSo, to cut to the chase, I'd tell them a little about it, and then they'd ask a question about it. The thing is, it is a unique vehicle and to know a little about it and to be able to answer a question about it, they'd have to have some information. So I'd say, "You know, it's not my car. It's my son's car. He owns a Lotus. He has a very nice Lotus. He likes to race it. He's a bit crazy."\n\nAnd then I'd leave.