Running with an EBC G2 ErgoDox keyboard\n\nI finally bought a proper ErgoDox keyboard a couple of days ago. My old keyboard was becoming really noisy to use, and I found that it caused a lot of pain in my wrists after some time of use. A couple of my friends use ErgoDox, so I decided to give it a try.\n\nThere are quite a few resources on how to put together an ErgoDox, but I wanted to make mine a bit easier to use. The keys are split between two halves, which is often called the left and right brain. When I was first working on the keyboard, I would often reach for the wrong keys and hit the wrong half. Also, I wanted to create a more comfortable keyboard for my wrists, as they often get sore after using the ErgoDox for a few hours. The result is this setup:\n\nFirst, I took a gaming mousepad and glued it to the left half of the keyboard, and cut a hole for the thumb cluster. I also cut off the feet of the keyboard, and used the rubber pads of the mousepad to glue them on the bottom of the keyboard. This makes the keyboard more comfortable to use, since the edges of the keyboard are no longer uncomfortable to touch.\n\nThe keycaps are not correct in the image, since I took them off to get to the next step. In fact, this photo was taken just after I put the keys on the first time.\n\nAs you can see in the image, the thumb cluster on the left half is the same as on the right half. I also took off the thumb keys on the right half, so that it’s more comfortable to hold and doesn’t press on the mousepad.\n\nFor the thumb cluster, I used a cheap office keyboard. The office keyboard is much better in quality than the gaming keyboard, so I could easily place it on the same plate as the rest of the keyboard. Since the office keyboard has a special keycap, I bought a replacement in the keycaps store. The keycap does not need to be replaced, since the new version has the same indentation as the original one.\n\nOverall, the keyboard feels really good. I haven’t used the ErgoDox for very long, so I cannot really say how it compares to the usual ErgoDox. My wrists don’t hurt as much as before, and the keyboard itself is very comfortable.\n\nPS: You can follow me on Twitter.