"Florence Turner\n\nFlorence Turner (September 2, 1884 – March 13, 1958) was an American actress, stage manager, and manager. She was active on stage from 1910 to 1958. She began her stage career as a teenager in a vaudeville act with her sisters, the Turners, as "The Four Sisters Turner." Turner managed the Broadway production of "The Little Show" for eight years. She married actor Albert Smith, who later became known as Jean Harlow's stepfather. Turner later worked as Harlow's personal manager and was responsible for organizing Harlow's funeral.\n\nFlorence Louise Turner was born in Uniontown, Pennsylvania, the daughter of Emma Seib Turner, an actress, and Franklin G. Turner, a singing and dancing instructor. Florence and her four sisters performed as the Turners, a vaudeville act in which each sister sang or danced while the others supported her. The sisters became one of the most popular acts of their era. In 1910, the Turners moved to Broadway, where they appeared in "Going Up" with Florence in the leading role. She next appeared in "The Silver Slipper" in 1912. Turner continued to perform with her sisters as a chorus girl in a series of Broadway shows.\n\nIn 1922, Turner made her New York stage manager debut in "The Blue Flame", a musical with a book by Zona Gale and Edmund Goulding. The show was a failure and closed after 15 performances. She continued to work as a stage manager and assistant stage manager on Broadway shows. Turner became the stage manager of "The Little Show", a successful revue that ran from 1925 to 1928. She then took over as the stage manager for "The Garrick Gaieties", a musical revue that ran from 1928 to 1930. She also worked as stage manager for "The Garrick Gaieties" national tour.\n\nTurner's management of "The Garrick Gaieties" was largely responsible for its success, and the show's producer Arthur Hammerstein considered Turner for the same position on "The Desert Song" in 1931. The show's original stage manager had died, and the producer offered the position to Turner, but she was unable to accept it because she was already committed to managing "The Little Show". When "The Little Show" closed in 1931, Turner became the manager of "The Desert Song". She organized the production and the touring company that followed the show. She managed the national tour of the show from 1933 to 1935. She left the show in 1935 to become a personal manager for movie star Jean Harlow, who was one of Turner's clients.\n\nTurner was responsible for organizing Harlow's funeral after she died suddenly of uremic poisoning on June 7, 1937. She was unable to attend the funeral, as she was recovering from an appendectomy in a Hollywood hospital. Turner supervised the production of "The Jean Harlow Story", a biographical film that told Harlow's story in her own words and in flashbacks. The film was originally supposed to star Harlow, but she was replaced by Jane Wyman after Harlow's death. In March 1942, Turner worked with 20th Century Fox studio head Darryl F. Zanuck to help Harlow's widower, actor William Powell, recover from the accidental drowning of his son.\n\nTurner retired from the theater in 1945 after more than 30 years as a stage manager. She worked as a freelance manager on behalf of her clients. She continued to work as Harlow's personal manager, and in 1950, Turner traveled to England to work with Harlow's London agent, Billy Rose.\n\nTurner married actor Albert Smith, who was later known as Jean Harlow's stepfather, in 1912. They were separated in 1917. In 1923, she began an affair with dancer Milt Kahn.\n\nTurner died on March 13, 1958, in New York City. She was 64 years old. Her death was unexpected, and an autopsy showed that she died of myocardial infarction.\n\n