A review of Peter Dale Scott's "The American Deep State"\n\nThe term "deep state" has a long history and has been used for various intelligence agencies since 1947, when the Central Intelligence Agency was established. Its focus has been on covert intelligence activities such as assassination, propaganda and the use of organized crime.\n\nThere is a wider context to be taken into account. During the second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st, most U.S. administrations faced strong opposition from major sections of the intelligence apparatus. The Bay of Pigs fiasco, the assassination attempts on Fidel Castro, the JFK assassination, Watergate, the Iran-Contra affair, 9/11 and the many war mongering incidents since then show that, far from supporting a president, the intelligence community and military are often at odds with the White House. In "The American Deep State," Peter Dale Scott analyses the various actors that make up this "deep state" and its deep roots in the history of the United States.\n\nFor Scott, the deep state does not just refer to the intelligence apparatus or to a secret organization but rather to an overlapping network that controls politics and the economy, often supporting the military. For example, members of the CFR (Council on Foreign Relations) have worked for the CIA, the National Security Council and in the White House, or else have worked for the Trilateral Commission. Similarly, the major banks, the oil companies, the military-industrial complex and the media work in tandem, even if some are more powerful than others.\n\nAt the center of this spider's web is the super-rich 1%, in collusion with a large portion of the super-elite 10% that owns most of the resources of the United States, whether this be land, companies or stock markets. It is a core oligarchy that is effectively able to govern the United States outside of the sight of the media, since they own the media. It is from this small group of owners of banks and oil companies that this elite derives most of its power. Scott makes a good case in demonstrating that there is a massive cover-up regarding the role of the banks in financing and benefiting from the oil industry, the arms trade and organized crime.\n\nFor the author, the Watergate affair and the JFK assassination marked a watershed. In both cases, the truth is being covered up. The Watergate scandal was orchestrated to bring down Nixon, who refused to go along with the deep state. John Kennedy also stood in the way of the oil companies, the military and the CIA. It is this "deep state" that governs the United States. It is important to note that there is no secret group behind the scenes that is pulling the strings of the United States. On the contrary, it is the ruling class as a whole. While some members of the CFR, the Trilateral Commission or the Bilderberg Group do indeed have an influence, these are not secret societies but "secret societies" for the public, an "occult public."\n\nThis book will probably not be well-received in the United States since it is based on official documents, the mainstream media and historical documents from various administrations. The author is a professor emeritus of English at the University of California and he is not afraid of the term "Deep State." He is less afraid of challenging the accepted version of the Kennedy assassination than of questioning the 9/11 Commission Report. Scott is also the author of a number of works on the JFK assassination and was one of the first to denounce the official version of 9/11.\n\nThis well-researched book is also a sort of an exposé of a central intelligence apparatus that acts as a sort of secret government, often supporting political extremism, rather than fighting it. Indeed, Scott often emphasizes that a deep state "has its own agenda, which does not coincide with the civil agenda of a society." However, Scott also makes a point of showing the role of this deep state in various coups, conspiracies, assassinations, the war in Vietnam, the opposition to the Civil Rights Movement, the war in Afghanistan, and more recently in the United States in the support for torture, extraordinary renditions, the war in Iraq and the attack on Libya.\n\nThis book provides valuable information and helps us understand the true nature of the state in the United States. If the American public were aware of the true role of the intelligence apparatus and the many wars that it supports, there would be widespread protest. It is important to note"