"Every year for Christmas my family always got together and the kids got a gift. My brother and I would argue for a few weeks about who would get a gift and eventually the night of the event the parents would sit down and decide who got a gift. One year the parents decided that my brother and I would have to share a gift. At first we were mad, but after a few days we decided to come to a compromise. We agreed that we would have to share the gift but whoever received the most toys would be the winner. On Christmas morning we were both pumped to find out who would win. After all the gifts were opened my brother won. I was so happy and ready to play with all the toys. I noticed that my brother was not as happy as I was. When I asked why he told me that he got the big toy that was only for boys and I got the doll that was only for girls. He was sad that he would never be able to share the toys with his best friend, me. From then on I decided to never let a girl have the toy that I wanted. I always wanted the most popular and expensive toys because I did not want any girl to have something better than me.\n\nThe first video game that I really remember wanting was Super Smash Brothers. The video game was released when I was in middle school and it was super popular. There was a lot of excitement in my school because we had the opportunity to play the game before it came out. I always thought that the character Link was the coolest because he could transform into different characters. When the game came out I bought it right away and loved playing it with my brother. I was not concerned with the fact that I was playing with a girl, because it did not matter to me. She was not my best friend at the time but I did not want her to have the same game as me.\n\nThe video game Tom Clancy’s The Division was a big game for me and I was excited to get it. This was a game where you played with other people in a multiplayer setting. You had to play as a team and communicate to complete the game. The girl who sat next to me in school loved playing the game and I thought she was really cool. When I finally got the game I played with her a lot, but after a while I started to get bored. I felt like she was the one who was telling me what to do and that she was being bossy. I told her that we needed to play with other people because she was annoying me. After that, I would only play with her when she was playing the game and she told me that I was being a bad teammate. I really liked playing the game and did not want her to ruin it for me.\n\nThe game Fortnite was released a few months ago and I immediately downloaded it. It is a survival game that is similar to The Division. This game was on my phone, and I would play it in class and during my free period. After a while I started to get bored with it, but my best friend really liked it and started to play it all the time. The game was starting to get popular in our school, and I would be on a different team than my friend. I did not want her to have better than me, so I tried to play better than her and talk trash to her. I wanted to make sure that she did not have the most wins or kills because she was a girl and I wanted to be better than her. This game was something that I was able to play with my best friend, but I did not want her to be the best at it.\n\nThe game Apex Legends is another game that I really enjoy playing. This game is similar to Fortnite but it is played on a console. When I found out that this game came out I was so excited. I immediately downloaded the game and started to play. My brother plays this game a lot, and I really enjoy playing it with him. When my brother told me that his best friend was getting the game and we could play together I was so excited. The girl that he wanted to play with was my best friend, and I was happy because I could play with my friend and my brother’s best friend. When the day came for us to play, I told her that I could not play because I was busy. I did not want to play with her because I thought she was bossy and annoying. After a few weeks of not playing the game with my friend, my brother’s best friend started to play with me. We would play all the time and had so much fun. I could not believe that I let a girl ruin my game for me, but it was all because I did not want her to have something better than me.\n\nIn conclusion, I was very jealous of the girls who got the toy that I wanted to play with. I was never afraid of playing with girls, but when I played video games I would not want them to be the best at it. I realized that I should not let a girl have the same game as me because it was not fair. I am also a girl and should not think that girls are weaker or better than me because I am a girl. If I play with girls I should not make them feel bad or bossy, because it is not nice. If I get a toy that a girl likes I should not give it to her, but I should let her play with it. Being a girl does not mean that I should be bossy or weaker, and I will not let anyone make me feel that way.