10-15 March 2007\n\n\n\nG E T T I N G A G R E A T S E R I E S\n\n\n\nI'm going to try to do a new article series starting today. I know that there's a large chunk of the community that follows the series and I really want to give them something to enjoy and appreciate. I'm going to try to be as fair as I can about rating a series, and I'll even include the manga to show just how different the two media can be. To start off, we're going to talk about one of the biggest names in the business: Dragon Ball Z.\n\n\n\nI'm a big fan of Dragon Ball Z, and it's not just because it's popular. I just find it a lot of fun and quite amusing to watch. I started reading the manga when I was 11 years old, and watched the show when it came out in America. I even have a few friends who say that DBZ is the reason that they got into anime and manga in the first place. I can understand where they're coming from; Dragon Ball Z is quite the show. It's a very entertaining and quite unique story that you don't see very often.\n\n\n\nDragon Ball Z (DBZ) is a sequel to the original Dragon Ball manga. The Dragon Ball manga was created by Akira Toriyama and ran from 1984 to 1995, having 42 volumes. The manga ran for such a long time, that the time-skip in the anime was only about three years. This gave Toriyama a chance to re-work some of the characters and re-introduce some of the Z-Warriors.\n\n\n\nDragon Ball Z is one of the most successful anime in history, but it had a very weird start. It started out as a continuation of the original Dragon Ball series, but the series creators decided to change the main character from Goku to the evil Goku clone named Son Goku (Vegeta's son), so they could take the series in a darker direction. Since the series started out as a comedy, a lot of people weren't really sure what to think of the series.\n\n\n\nDragon Ball Z was a huge hit in America, but the whole thing with Goku being replaced by the more dastardly son did confuse people. There were a lot of people who wanted to know what happened to the hero that they loved. Dragon Ball Z was never as popular in Japan as it was in America. A lot of people in Japan didn't know how to react to the series, and didn't like the fact that Goku wasn't the main character. The series was a hit in the US, but it didn't do very well in Japan.\n\n\n\nWhen the second season of the anime was released, the Japanese fans decided to boycott the show, so the series wasn't very popular. This caused Dragon Ball Z to be cancelled after only two seasons, leaving the fans and anime watchers in the US with a lot of questions. Toriyama would later re-visit the series and give the fans some of the answers, but it took a while.\n\n\n\nThe first Dragon Ball Z movie was released in Japan in March of 1990. This movie would later be released in America under the name of "Dragon Ball Z: Dead Zone". Toriyama created a new story that would show the fans what happened after the series ended. This is where the first movie leaves off. It isn't until the fourth movie, that Toriyama takes the fans back to the original manga storyline. This is where the series continues to be played out.\n\n\n\nThe second movie, "Super Saiyan Son Goku", picks up where the last movie left off. It then goes on to show the events of the first part of the Buu Saga. The third movie, "Super Saiyan Son Gohan", is about Gohan's return to the series after he was "killed" in the Majin Buu Saga. The fourth movie, "The World's Strongest", picks up with the events of the Cell Saga and ends with the "Freeza" saga.\n\n\n\nThe fifth and sixth movies go over the Androids Saga. The first movie shows Androids #17 and #18 in action, while the second movie shows the rest of the Androids in action. The seventh movie, "Super Saiyan Trunks", covers the Cell Games. The eighth movie, "Super Saiyan 3 Son Goku", is about the fusion of Goku and Vegeta to form Vegito. The ninth movie, "Burn Up! A Red-Hot, Raging, Super-Fierce Fight" covers the Majin Buu Saga. The tenth movie, "A New Hero is Born", shows the events of the Majin Buu Saga in a different light.\n\n\n\nThe eleventh movie, "Bardock - The Father of Goku", takes us back in time to the beginning of the Saiyans' attack on the planet earth. This movie fills in a lot of the gaps that Toriyama left out in the original series. The twelfth movie, "The Battle of Gods", covers the events of the Battle of Gods. The thirteenth movie, "Bojack Unbound", is about the events of Bojack, and shows how he was able to escape from the prison that he was in. The fourteenth movie, "The History of Trunks", shows the events of the "Trunks" story arc.\n\n\n\nThe fifteenth movie, "Broly - The Legendary Super Saiyan", shows the events of the original Broly movie. The sixteenth movie, "Broly - Second Coming", is a re-hash of the original Broly movie. The seventeenth movie, "Bio-Broly", is a re-hash of the original Bio-Broly movie. The eighteenth movie, "Bojack Unbound", is a re-hash of the original Bojack movie. The nineteenth movie, "Bojack Unbound", is a re-hash of the original Bojack movie. The twentieth movie, "Cooler's Revenge", is a re-hash of the original Cooler movie.\n\n\n\nThe twenty-first movie, "The World's Strongest", is a re-hash of the original movie, "The World's Strongest". The twenty-second movie, "Dead Zone", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Dead Zone". The twenty-third movie, "The Tree of Might", is a re-hash of the original movie, "The Tree of Might". The twenty-fourth movie, "Lord Slug", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Lord Slug". The twenty-fifth movie, "Cooler's Revenge", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Cooler's Revenge".\n\n\n\nThe twenty-sixth movie, "The Return of Cooler", is a re-hash of the original movie, "The Return of Cooler". The twenty-seventh movie, "Super Android 13", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Super Android 13". The twenty-eighth movie, "Broly - Second Coming", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Broly - Second Coming". The twenty-ninth movie, "Bojack Unbound", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Bojack Unbound". The thirtieth movie, "Bojack Unbound", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Bojack Unbound". The thirty-first movie, "Fusion Reborn", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Fusion Reborn".\n\n\n\nThe thirty-second movie, "Wrath of the Dragon", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Wrath of the Dragon". The thirty-third movie, "Goku vs. Vegeta", is a re-hash of the original movie, "Goku vs. Vegeta"