San Francisco 49ers Tickets\n\nSan Francisco 49ers News\n\nSan Francisco 49ers Tickets\n\nThe San Francisco 49ers are one of the most storied teams in all of football, the 49ers were one of the original teams in the NFL when they joined the NFL in 1950. At that time they were called the San Francisco Forty-Niners, a name that actually came from a fan who thought it would be a cool name. The 49ers original colors were red and gold and their logo was a little man in a red hat on top of a gold football. Those colors and the team name stuck with the 49ers for the next twenty-two years, but when the team moved to the Bay area they decided to make some changes. First they changed their team colors from red and gold to red, white, and blue. They also changed their logo to a flag that showed their new colors, and the man in the red hat was replaced with a miner from the mining days in the Bay area. Those changes stuck with the 49ers for almost thirty years, but when they moved to their new stadium in Santa Clara, California they decided it was time for another change. The Niners kept the same colors, but changed the logo to a more updated version of the old one. The miner was replaced by a red oval with the SF logo in the middle of it, and the new oval was inside a white oval, with a gold border around it.The 49ers were one of the founding members of the NFL, and they made their first playoff appearance in 1957, but did not win their first playoff game until 1982. Even with the bad records the Niners were one of the most well-known teams in the NFL. The Niners were the first NFL team to win five Super Bowl titles, and were named the team of the decade for the 1980s. Even with all of their success the Niners were in the cellar of the NFC West for many years, and that is why they had such a hard time making it to the playoffs. They had a couple of playoff runs in the 2000s, but they have not been to the Super Bowl since 1994.The Niners have made it to the Super Bowl five times, and they won five Super Bowls in the 1980s. They were the team of the decade for the 1980s, and their greatest coach was the legendary Bill Walsh. In the early years of the Niners the team was led by quarterbacks Joe Montana and Steve Young, but they could not get over the hump and make it to the Super Bowl. In the early nineties the Niners picked up a quarterback by the name of Steve Young and he became the greatest quarterback to ever wear the red and white. Young won the MVP award twice, and made it to six Pro Bowls before his career was cut short by an injury. The Niners were also led by running backs Joe Montana and Roger Craig, and wide receivers Jerry Rice and Terrell Owens. The Niners had the most dominant defense in football in the 1980s, and their success has not been matched since then.