Alpinestars and Driftmob went to the famous race track to have some fun with the new DRS technology. They wanted to find out how many horsepower the system gives, so they put the race car on a dyno and with one push of a button the DRS was open. After it was closed again, they got to see how much more horsepower the DRS gives the car.\n\nThis feature was originally introduced on the 2013 F1 cars. On those cars the drag reduction system was only used in qualifying, because it did not give enough of an advantage during a race. The advantage it gives in terms of a lap time is about half a second, which is why it is not used during a race.\n\nDRS is a technology that has been used in motorsports for a long time. The system is very well known and has proven to be very effective on F1 cars, because it reduces drag, which is exactly what the name says. This also means that there is a lot less drag on the car. The drag is a negative effect on a race car and that is why there is so much emphasis on trying to minimize it. The system is operated by a switch and that is why it is called the drag reduction system.\n\nWith the DRS the speed of the car increases. This is a result of a reduction in drag and therefore the car will go faster. The system is operated by a switch that is placed in the cockpit. By pushing it a button, the rear wing will open up. This will increase the speed of the car by about 50 km/h and this is the amount of speed that is possible on a straight line.\n\nThis feature is often used on the pit straight. This is a part of the track that is straight and therefore a driver can gain a lot of speed in a short amount of time by using the drag reduction system. Because this system was used so much by the F1 drivers in qualifying sessions, the FIA decided to limit the use of it. Now, the system can only be used on straights. Also, in a qualifying session it is only allowed to be used at least once and for a maximum of six seconds per lap. This system can also be used when there is a safety car on the track.\n\nIt is important to know that the drag reduction system is only allowed to be used at speeds over 150 km/h. That is why it is used on straights and when there is a safety car on the track. In the 2013 season there were some talks about the use of DRS. The FIA even did some tests to see if they should allow it to be used in the races. Those tests showed that using it during a race is not a good idea. The reasons for this is that the effect it has on the cars is just too big. Also, it creates a different type of racing, which is not something that is really interesting to watch.\n\nBy Laura Van Geffen\n\nSources:\n\nDRS Feature\n\nAlpinestars\n\nDRS Feature\n\nIMS\n\nImage by Wikimedia Commons