History of the Russian Empire\n\nThe History of the Russian Empire covers the history of Russia from 988 to 1917. From the time Russia was incorporated into the Eastern Roman Empire, the state adopted Greek Orthodox Christianity under Vladimir I of Kiev. The autocratic power of the monarchs of the state was gradually reduced by a series of liberal reforms of the 19th century. During the revolutionary periods of the late 18th and early 20th centuries, the country was beset by civil strife and foreign invasions, but the autocratic government of the House of Romanov was able to maintain itself and eventually emerge victorious. The Tsarist state was weakened by the war and the subsequent revolutionary uprisings. It was finally overthrown in the Russian Revolution of 1917, which put an end to the Russian Empire, which had replaced the Russian Empire.\n\nIn 862 AD, following the movements of the Great Moravian Empire, the Rus' people pushed forward along the waterways extending from the eastern section of the Dnieper river to the Black Sea, the Caucasus, and the Caspian Sea. They would soon settle in the land of Pechenegs. This group of people then migrated in several waves to the southern shores of the Baltic Sea in the 7th and 8th centuries, where they established the foundations of the Principality of Kiev and Kievan Rus'. \n\nThe origins of Kievan Rus' trace back to 839 when the Rus' people migrated into the basin of the Northern Dvina river. Led by Prince Oleg, the Rus' military group invaded the Byzantine Empire by way of the Black Sea, plundering and trading in order to find Constantinople. They then moved into the steppes, capturing Kiev, which had been deserted for years, and began to make it their new capital. In the year 880, the Kievans, a warlike people, moved to the upper reaches of the Dnieper river. Their new location provided new resources and an abundance of fertile land. \n\nBy the late 10th century, the country adopted Christianity from the Byzantine Empire. In the 11th and 12th centuries, constant incursions by nomadic Turkic tribes, such as the Kipchaks and the Pechenegs, caused a massive migration of Slavic populations to the safer, heavily forested regions of the north and to the east, by the Don and Volga rivers. \n\nIn the Middle Ages, the territory of present-day Russia suffered Mongol invasions. These, along with an at times quick succession of Russian rulers in the 10th and 13th centuries, led to the fall of feudalism in Russia. In 1380, the city of Moscow was captured by Dmitry Donskoy. At the time, Muscovy was a minor principality subordinate to the Mongol-Tatar Golden Horde and ruled by Ivan the Terrible, who emerged as a national hero. During the 16th and 17th centuries, the Tsardom of Russia was able to overpower the Volga and Kama Khanates, annexing their territories and thus expanding the Russian state southward.\n\nIn the years that followed, the Russian state expanded southward. The conquest of Kazan was completed in 1552. After the death of Ivan the Terrible in 1584, his son Fyodor ruled the Tsardom of Russia. Feodor, too, expanded Russia's borders southward, annexing the Crimean Khanate in 1589.\n\nThe conquest of Siberia continued in 1638 with the foundation of Yakutsk. Four years later, the construction of the first Russian feudal holiday town of Zabaykalsk along the Angara River in the Irkutsk region was completed. The 18th century saw Russia's first territorial expansion, which was the result of the first Russian and Siberian conquests.\n\nIn 1649, Russia captured the khanate of Sibir, marking the end of the flourishing Tatar Khanate of Sibir. During this time, the Russian state began to expand across Siberia rapidly. In 1689, the construction of Kolymskaya Road was completed, linking Yakutsk to the Arctic Sea, making trade between Europe and Siberia possible for the first time.\n\nIn 1696, first Russian settlements appear on the Amur river. During the 17th century, Russia became a country of mass, chaotic, and rapid settlement. In 1703, the population of Siberia outnumbered that of European Russia for the first time. By 1717, the Tsardom of Russia had expanded to include most of Siberia, along with the Baltic region and the northern part of European Russia.\n\nDuring the second half of the 18th century, the territory of Russia began to expand rapidly southward into Central Asia. In 1763, Catherine II, known as Catherine the Great, who was the leader of the state at the time, led her armies to victory in the Russo-Turkish War. The result of this war was that the Ottoman Empire recognized Russia as an imperial power and granted Russia the right of free passage in the Black Sea. The annexation of Crimea followed shortly thereafter, in 1783.\n\nBy the end of the 18th century, the Russian Empire extended from the Arctic Ocean in the north to the Black Sea in the south, and from the Baltic Sea in the west to the Pacific Ocean in the east. At this time, the population of the empire was about 27 million people, with the largest cities being Saint Petersburg and Moscow. Despite these territorial conquests, the population of the Russian Empire was very low, with only 3 million people living in cities, and most people living in the countryside. These small cities, known as "oprichnina", were separated from one another by vast tracts of land that were occupied by peasants, with each peasant family essentially running its own farm. \n\nThe 18th century was a period of reforms in the Russian Empire. In 1721, Peter I abolished the servitude of the peasants, making the peasants free landowners. However, the landlords continued to be able to inflict corporal punishment on their peasants, which was often very brutal, with punishments ranging from twenty-five lashes to death. Peter's reforms also included a program of reorganization of the Russian army, where he abolished the "dvoevlastie" system of shared power and introduced the modern Russian Table of Ranks.\n\nPeter also was known for his frequent travels around Europe, where he would study various technologies, industrial advancements, and cultures of the West. He imported the latest ideas and technologies into Russia, where he had them copied by the local population. His biggest desire was to move the capital of Russia from the city of Moscow to the newly founded city of Saint Petersburg. Peter was able to accomplish this in 1712, forcing the nobility to move along with the capital.\n\nFollowing the death of Peter, Catherine the Great ascended to the throne of the Russian Empire. Catherine reformed the Russian administration by the creation of the ministries. She was also known for her conquests in the south, where she conquered the Crimean Khanate in 1783, the Kuban Khanate in 1787, and Georgia in 1783. \n\nDuring the 18th century, Russia gained control over a vast land in northern North America. In 1732, Russian explorers reached the east coast of the Chukchi Peninsula. A number of forts were built in the peninsula and on the neighboring Chukchi Sea in 1732–1743, and the whole area was annexed in 1747. The most important of them was the Aleksandrovsky Ostrog (Александровский Острог), built on the ruins of an ancient Chukchi settlement. In 1764, Saint Petersburg founded the port of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, on Kamchatka's Avacha Bay. The town later became the capital of Russian America.\n\nThe 18th century saw the Russian state's steady expansion southward into Central Asia and the Caucasus. In 1722, the Russian Empire annexed the Georgian kingdoms of Kartli and Kakheti, including the areas of Greater and Lesser Kartli, as well as the Kakhetian province of Kizi. Russia also expanded into Siberia. The Pacific coast of Siberia was settled from the 1730s onwards, with the foundation of Yakutsk and the construction of the Trans-Siberian Highway across Siberia. The total number of settlements in Siberia increased from 29 in 1640 to 1,419 in 1812. The rapid growth of the Russian Empire's population was primarily due to its vast conquests.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Russian Empire faced growing opposition from the European states, which were determined to prevent its expansion. From 1815 to 1854, the Russian Empire was engaged in the Great Northern War, which consisted of a series of battles that took place in the Baltic region and in the European part of Russia. The Russian Empire defeated Sweden and took control of Finland, thereby gaining a large area of land in northern Europe and expanding to the north of the Arctic Circle. The Russian Empire had to maintain a large army to prevent Sweden from recapturing Finland, and its expenditure increased dramatically. The war ended in 1809 with the Treaty of Fredrikshamn.\n\nAfter the war with Sweden, Russia was engaged in a war with Persia, which began in 1804. During this time, Russia was also engaged in a war with Britain and France in the Napoleonic Wars. In 1812, Napoleon, who was the leader of France at the time, invaded Russia. Russia was forced to retreat and Napoleon advanced all the way to Moscow, but he failed to capture the city, and was eventually defeated by a combination of the harsh Russian winter and the fierce resistance of the Russian Army. In the aftermath of the Napoleonic invasion, Russia was forced to sign the Treaty