Let's kick it off with something light hearted. This post is inspired by a conversation I had with a friend on the phone the other day.\n\nI know, I know, how could a conversation with a close friend turn into a post? Well, since we are "advanced" practitioners, we were of course talking about whether and when it is appropriate to have an orgasm in Tantric lovemaking.\n\nTantric sexuality is a broad and beautiful topic and orgasm is just one of many important aspects of our sexuality. However, it is a fascinating question. If we look at this through the lens of the "yoga of sex", Tantric sex is about the union of our energy body and our physical body. Orgasm, by definition, is the peak of the energy flow of the energy body. So what happens in our spiritual quest when we orgasm?\n\nNow, one of the most important aspects of Tantric sex is that we are grounded, embodied beings. If we are flying in the clouds (more on that another time), we are not having Tantric sex.\n\nSo here is what I said.\n\nIf you can stay grounded and embodied during orgasm, then have one. Have multiple if you like. There is nothing wrong with that. However, many of us who are engaged in this path have orgasms that take us out of our bodies. For some of us, orgasm can make us feel ungrounded or floaty for a while.\n\nThat is because when we orgasm we are in a sort of trance state and we go somewhere. It is often very pleasant. Orgasm is very like meditation for some of us. So why not use that wonderful state to explore our inner worlds?\n\nIf we can stay grounded while we have an orgasm, then let it take us wherever it will. Maybe you'll experience a spontaneous mystical vision. Maybe you'll have a profound insight about something you've been struggling with. Or maybe you'll just drift off into a peaceful slumber. It's up to you.\n\nHowever, there are a lot of people who do not get grounded when they orgasm. They lose connection with their bodies and then have no reference point to ground themselves. Instead, they go into trance. Sometimes they drift into some pretty weird places.\n\nIf you find yourself being ungrounded and spaced out after an orgasm, then don't do it. Wait for the grounding to come before you have another one. If you do this regularly, you will eventually find yourself grounded during orgasm.\n\nLike anything, Tantric sex is something that we must learn, practice and cultivate. It is not an easy thing to do and it takes time to learn and develop.\n\nAnd so, as always, when it comes to sex, we have a choice. We can live our lives with a little bit of pleasure on the side. Or we can choose to change our lives in big ways.\n\nBut the choice is always ours.\n\nPhoto Credit: Michael Dorausch