"To be blunt, the video you linked to does not really prove anything one way or the other. That video is trying to make it seem like some statements made by Dan Abnett about the use of the term "boy" or "son" when applied to the Raven Guard during the Horus Heresy was a form of apologism for using "boyz" when referring to Orks. This is not the case. While it is true that Abnett's statements were inappropriate, the content of that video fails to really show it. For example, where the video claims that Abnett said "Raven Guard don't ever call themselves boys", Abnett was in fact saying that Raven Guard did not ever call themselves "boyz" or any other similar slang. He specifically mentioned "boyz" in the context of Orks as an example, and it is the video that is now misrepresenting his words. In other words, Abnett's statements on the subject of Orks are accurate, and the video's attempt to show him in a negative light is based on a misrepresentation.\n\nAdditionally, your claim that the Imperium is "far from perfect" is not true, as the Imperium's culture is based around the worship of the Emperor, who has deified himself and is often referred to as a god by Imperial citizens. This means that the Imperium has absolutely no separation between religion and government, which means that your claim that the Imperium is "far from perfect" is also a form of apologism, as it is ignoring a key element of the Imperium that should be readily apparent to any Imperial citizen. The use of "Apologetic" is a misuse of the word and also misrepresents what the author is trying to say, as you have misrepresented the claim he is making.\n\nThe author's second "claim" is incorrect on many levels, and is also based on a misrepresentation of facts. Firstly, let's take a look at the quote he links to:\n\n"If we wanted to do a straight-up Space Marines game, we would have done Space Marines, right? They’re the coolest guys."\n\nThis quote is taken out of context. The quote actually goes on to explain why they chose to do the Space Marines as they did. In fact, the quote was in response to a question about why they decided to make Space Marines so "stereotypically heroic" in terms of a tone. The statement that follows in the quote states that it is because Space Marines are the "coolest guys" in the galaxy. What the author is doing here is taking a single quote and presenting it as if it is the entirety of the explanation of why Space Marines are the way they are in this game, when that is not the case.\n\nThe author's next claim is that he does not agree with the statement about the inclusion of certain races, but instead of explaining why he disagrees, he simply says that it is "wrong". This does not actually prove that the statement is incorrect, and is a form of dog-whistle politics, as it is deliberately vague and meant to be interpreted as "political correctness" or "SJW" or "Cultural Marxism" and similar things, all of which are highly charged words. He could very easily have explained why he disagrees with the statement, but he did not. Instead, he chose to attempt to shut down any further discussion of the topic with a rather obscure quote, while also using a misrepresentation of the quote to try and do so.\n\nThe author's final claim is based on another misrepresentation of the source material. In his article, the author linked to an article that states that the developers actually took fan-feedback into account when designing the Space Marine Chapters. In fact, the developers mentioned that they were "watching" the fans' reactions to the game, and were taking note of how the game was received and what fans' concerns were, which is in line with what the developers have said about their reasons for making the Space Marine Chapters they did.\n\nOnce again, the author is trying to use his article as a form of dog-whistle politics, as he is taking these claims and trying to make it seem as if the developers were lying. However, even if the developers were lying about this, which they are not, that does not invalidate the author's argument. In other words, the author's claims that the developers are lying about this are irrelevant to the argument the author is making, and should not be considered when assessing the validity of his arguments.\n\nIn the author's first sentence, he claims that it is "common knowledge" that the Imperium of Man is based on Nazi Germany. However, I do not believe that this is actually true, as I have never heard this before, and the idea seems rather outlandish. In fact, the idea that the Imperium of Man is based on Nazi Germany is so outlandish that it makes me question the author's sanity. Furthermore, his claim is an appeal to emotion, as the author does not really explain why he thinks this, and instead simply uses an emotionally charged accusation.\n\nIn the author's second sentence, he claims that the Space Marine Chapters, as well as the Emperor, are based on "fascist leadership". I have already addressed the author's claim about the Space Marine Chapters, and I will now address his claim about the Emperor. While I cannot speak for the Emperor's actual policies, he is still worshiped as a god by most of the citizens of the Imperium, which does not actually fit with the definition of "fascist leadership". Furthermore, the author does not really explain how he came to the conclusion that the Emperor is based on fascist leadership, and instead simply asserts it without any real explanation.\n\nThe author's third claim is based on a misrepresentation of facts, and is yet another form of dog-whistle politics. His claim that a representation of the logo of the White Legion is on the flag of the Imperium is a misrepresentation of the source material. In the source material, it is explicitly stated that the White Legion and the Imperial flag are two separate things, with the author's claim making it seem as if the White Legion is the official flag of the Imperium of Man. This is, of course, untrue. In fact, the White Legion is not even in the same star system as the Imperium, so the White Legion's flag is actually irrelevant to the argument that the author is making.\n\nThe author's fourth claim is also based on a misrepresentation of facts, as well as yet another form of dog-whistle politics. The author claims that the developers stated that the Imperium is "an alliance between Humans and aliens". While I cannot speak for what the developers actually stated, I can point out that they did not state that the Imperium was an alliance between Humans and aliens. The author's statement that this claim is "common knowledge" is false. In fact, if this was common knowledge, then the author would not have needed to claim that this was what the developers had said. Instead, he would have just cited the developers as having said it. In other words, his claim that this is "common knowledge" is also a form of dog-whistle politics, as it is a claim that is designed to be interpreted as "political correctness" or "SJW" or "Cultural Marxism" and similar things, all of which are highly charged words.\n\nIn the author's final claim, he says that the Orks are portrayed as a generic enemy of the Imperium, when in fact they are a threat to the Imperium. The author claims that "Boyz" is used as an insult by the Imperium, when in fact it is used to refer to any Ork. In other words, his claim that the Imperium is "far from perfect" is incorrect, and in fact is a form of dog-whistle politics.