"Underdogs are human beings too. So it's OK for us to cheer for them. We just can't be surprised when they're subject to the same slings and arrows as every other athlete, whether they be Alex Gordon or a 20-year-old on his first day in the majors.\n\nI was talking with my buddy Steve Goldstein about this before the game yesterday. He said there's a difference between a player like Jonathan Papelbon and a prospect. So if you're surprised that all of the Red Sox players aren't treating the kid like gold, don't be.\n\nThis morning, ESPNBoston.com's Gordon Edes talked to Bobby Valentine, who said this about the reports that Bobby Jenks is giving the kid a hard time:\n\n"I think it's overstated. I think it's getting a little bit out of control. Bobby Jenks has a good relationship with all the players. That's not his style, I don't think. That's what we talk about in baseball -- not on the record, but they can't leave you alone, they're just going to write what they want. I'm a big believer in starting all over again, and we're just getting ready for another season. The Boston Red Sox. David Ortiz. Adrian Gonzalez. Kevin Youkilis. Dustin Pedroia. Jacoby Ellsbury. It's a great time to be a Boston Red Sox player, and I'm excited about it.\n\nLet's not go overboard here. He's talking about guys who have been here for a long time, who have their spots and their roles, and who have earned the right to do pretty much whatever they want.\n\nThe rookies? They don't have their spots and their roles, and they've got no right to do whatever they want. They haven't earned that. If a guy like David Ortiz wants to give a rookie a hard time, that's his prerogative. And that rookie had better not expect any sympathy from us. We don't know him. He hasn't earned it.\n\nThis morning, Ellsbury went on WEEI's Dennis & Callahan Show to talk about the whole thing. He told them he's got a pretty good idea of what he's going to do when he gets hit a pitch, and it's going to have something to do with the pitch being inside. He's not going to cry about it or complain about it. He's not going to run to the papers about it. He's just going to do what he's going to do.\n\n"It's just the game," he said. "I don't know what everyone is getting worked up about it. There's a lot of things that happen during the course of the season. It's not like I'm going to be surprised if it happens.\n\n"I guess that's just a little extra motivation. But at the same time, you still have to go out there and do your job."\n\nHe also addressed the allegation that Bobby Jenks is being mean to him:\n\n"I haven't had a conversation with him. I've seen him in the training room a couple times, just checking in. He doesn't have a malicious bone in his body. He's a big teddy bear. He's really nice, and he's a great guy. That's just another thing that people say, and people just take it and run with it. I don't think Bobby has any ill-will toward me.\n\n"I'm sure at some point, we'll have a conversation about it. We've got a game on Wednesday and maybe we'll get into it a little bit. But I don't think it's a big deal."\n\nHere's the whole interview.\n\nWe can only hope that this is all just a lot of posturing, and that the issues will be resolved long before they become a distraction.