Erskine Hamilton Childers\n\nErskine Hamilton Childers (; 17 June 1870 – 20 November 1922) was an Irish politician who served as the fourth President of Ireland, from 25 June 1921 to his death on 20 November 1922. He was a member of the Irish Republican Brotherhood and Sinn Féin.\n\nErskine Hamilton Childers was born in England in 1870, the eldest son of Robert Erskine Childers, a British Army officer and later a writer and political theorist.\n\nIn the course of his lifetime he spelled his surname in a number of different ways, including Childers and Childs.\n\nChilders attended school at Stubbington House, Fareham. At the age of 16 he became a clerk in a Southampton shipping office. He joined the Liberal Party and became a political speaker on its behalf. In 1899 he was elected as a councillor to Southampton County Borough Council.\n\nHe married Molly Zichy-Woinarski (sister of Francis "Frank" Zichy-Woinarski) in 1908, but had no children.\n\nChilders was a keen yachtsman, and in 1906, with Sir Thomas Lipton, he set up the Shamrock IV syndicate to challenge for the Americas Cup.\n\nHe participated in the unsuccessful Irish Convention of 1917–1918, a body established by British Prime Minister David Lloyd George which negotiated an agreement with Irish representatives in an attempt to end the period of Irish nationalist insurrection. The Convention, which met at Dublin Castle, made a number of suggestions regarding the governance of Ireland, which were partially incorporated into the Government of Ireland Act 1920. It was Childers, who, in September 1917, raised the need for a "conversation" between Irish and British leaders.\n\nAfter the Easter Rising of 1916, and his arrest for involvement, Childers helped reorganise the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB) in an effort to steer it towards constitutional activity and away from militancy.\n\nIn the 1918 general election, Childers stood as a Sinn Féin candidate in Wicklow. Although he did not win the seat, he polled well and the Sinn Féin party decided to nominate him as one of its members of the Irish delegation to the Paris Peace Conference. It was at the Paris Peace Conference that he met Arthur Griffith and became a convinced Irish republican.\n\nHe became a committed supporter of Arthur Griffith's Sinn Féin party. In 1919, he was arrested and charged with sedition, because of his support of the Irish Republican Army (IRA).\n\nHe was elected unopposed as a Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) to the 2nd Dáil at the 1921 elections for the Dublin Mid constituency. He supported the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921, and became a member of the Irish Free State Seanad in 1922.\n\nHe became the fourth President of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State (i.e. prime minister) in June 1921, and on 26 June 1921 he was appointed to the office of President of the Republic, (which was to become that of President of the Executive Council on the enactment of the 1922 Constitution in August 1922).\n\nIn 1921, the Government of Ireland Act 1920 split the island into two autonomous territories within the United Kingdom: the six north-eastern counties became Northern Ireland and the rest of Ireland became Southern Ireland, governed by the Irish Free State government in Dublin. However, the Parliament of Northern Ireland chose to opt out of the Free State in 1922. Under the terms of the Anglo-Irish Treaty, this meant that Northern Ireland would become part of the Irish Free State, but the British refused to accept this, saying it would lead to the "break-up of the United Kingdom". The Irish Taoiseach and President of the Executive Council (prime minister), W. T. Cosgrave, insisted that the British had breached the Treaty and that the Free State had the right to "withdraw from the British Commonwealth of Nations", but he chose not to use this option. Instead, he demanded that the Northern Ireland government do so, and thus abolish itself.\n\nChilders was shot dead in his home on Inishmore, Aran Islands, County Galway, in November 1922, two months after becoming President. The following January, the "Irish Independent" reported that Michael Noyk, the Russian Consul in Galway, and Joseph Murray, a member of the Irish Republican Brotherhood, were both implicated in his murder. The paper stated that Murray was sent by James O'Connor to warn Childers to stop political work in the Four Courts or else he would be killed, while Noyk knew of the plot and failed to notify the police. A police officer told the paper that he believed it was an ordinary robbery that "went wrong" as "Childers was too tough a man to be robbed".\n\n