Forget cost-benefit analysis. Try this instead: What happens to the environment when a company goes bankrupt?\n\nThe answer, according to ERI Economic Research Institute: On average, the environment will get significantly worse.\n\nERI compared the performance of companies with poor environmental, social and governance records against companies with strong records. The numbers are stark: If a firm is poor on those metrics, it is more likely to fail over the following five years. And once a company goes under, ERI's numbers show it's more likely to destroy more natural resources than it would have while operating.\n\nWhy does it matter? It shows that an ESG approach to investing can affect financial outcomes. "We did this study to look at ESG risk in a new way. While a lot of research has looked at ESG performance, few have really looked at ESG risk," said Jim Hall, director of corporate engagement at the National Christian Foundation, which sponsored the study. "And even fewer have looked at the impact of ESG on risk in the context of market returns. While we're not the first to do this, we are the first to do it in the context of ESG investment."\n\nHall presented the findings at a roundtable event in New York last week. Participants included a mix of investors, researchers and foundation officers. Hall said that NCF's goal was to understand the link between ESG performance and financial performance, and whether ESG management makes a difference in that context. ERI had already done some work on this issue. Now NCF wanted to take the analysis one step further, and fund the research, said Hall.\n\n"While the results are unsurprising, they're quite interesting. What we've done here is develop a new metric that can be used to better understand ESG risks. And the result is that companies with poor ESG practices are more likely to go out of business," he said.\n\nAnd when a company goes under, ERI found that on average it's more likely to have destroyed more natural resources. ERI's analysis uses an estimate from the U.S. Bureau of Mines of the amount of resources companies use over the life of their business. For example, a paper mill would be likely to consume more natural resources than an office building.\n\n"Companies with poor ESG practices are more likely to go out of business."\n\nBased on its data, ERI determined that when a company fails, it consumes roughly 20% more natural resources, on average, than it did while in business. And that's just over five years, said David Loomis, ERI's managing director of ESG research. Loomis presented the findings to the participants in New York.\n\n"We're certainly not the first to look at this, but we were the first to be able to do it in a way that's scalable," Loomis said. "We're able to do this analysis across thousands of companies. It's not just a handful of companies."\n\nLoomis said that the extra 20% of natural resources consumed by companies that go under could be anything from copper to water. "It's not just that they're doing more mining, but they're using more natural resources, and it's generally by making themselves less efficient," he said.\n\nThe analysis is based on bankruptcy filings from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court's Electronic Research Filing System, which includes bankruptcy filings from all U.S. courts. ERI's research focuses on publicly traded firms. Loomis said the results are generally representative of publicly traded firms in general, although it's more focused on small companies. "They're representative of the entire universe of bankruptcies, but there are very few mega bankruptcies," he said.\n\nERI also has data on roughly 300 companies that went bankrupt and didn't destroy any natural resources. ERI was able to determine what that sample looked like when it was healthy and when it was in bankruptcy. "What was striking was that a number of these companies were performing really well in their ESG practices before they went bankrupt," said Loomis. "They had good governance and social and environmental policies."\n\nIn that sample, ERI found that ESG performance wasn't that much different from that of companies that didn't go bankrupt. And it found that companies that did better on ESG performance metrics were more likely to go under.\n\n"We're not suggesting that ESG is the only factor driving this risk," said Hall. "We're trying to show that ESG is a factor. We're not suggesting that the only companies that go bankrupt are the ones that are not performing well on ESG issues."\n\nBased on its analysis, ERI determined that investors should use ESG risks to think about their investment strategy. "Investors should look at this from the perspective of investing in a company," said Loomis. "One might think that ESG performance and bankruptcy risk are correlated because a company that's poorly performing will have poor ESG."\n\nBut ERI's data show that's not the case. If a company is poor on ESG performance, there's a risk it will go bankrupt over the following five years. "That's what we're trying to say," Loomis said.\n\nERI's research follows up on work it did last year for the Association of Private Enterprise Education, which is an association of about 400 conservative academics and economics teachers at universities and colleges in the United States and overseas. The group was looking at a different question: How should investors think about ESG risks in their portfolio?\n\nLoomis said ERI's new research found a link between ESG risk and financial risk, but it also raises questions.\n\n"This research is really trying to understand if and how ESG is driving risk," Loomis said. "We've been able to do a lot of analysis, but I think we need to do more. It's a new metric, and it's worth looking at further."