"For many years, and at many different homes, the grand game of monopoly was a nightly staple of our game playing regimen. Most of the time the game was played with one of my kids as the banker. The game required a bit of accounting to keep track of all the money. More often than not the game was a heated one and everyone, particularly the banker, enjoyed counting out money while money was being piled up all around the board.\n\nMonopoly is an interesting game for a number of reasons.\n\nFirst, it requires the basic accounting function of making change. The cashier has to be able to count out the correct change for all the players. This seems like a very simple, but important function. If a cashier can’t count change, you would have to return the money, and you might not get it back.\n\nAlso, with any money that comes into the game there are some decisions that have to be made. For example, with a loan, how much should be charged to each player. More importantly, how much can the players afford to pay back?\n\nIn addition, how much does the bank loan to the players and what are the terms? What does the bank require to be repaid? At what time? What happens if there is not enough money to pay back the bank?\n\nThis seems like an easy concept, but a lot of my kids had a difficult time trying to figure out what they had to do to get out of debt.\n\nFinally, there are times when players simply get too deep into debt. They are forced to sell off a building, or even the entire game.\n\nThis seems like a pretty simple concept, but I found it interesting because it taught some of my kids a very valuable lesson about life. They realized how important it is to have a budget. More importantly, they realized how much money they had to spend. They had to spend wisely because they couldn’t go into debt.\n\nI think it’s easy to teach kids to balance their checkbook and keep track of their spending, but it’s much more difficult to teach them to spend wisely and stay out of debt.\n\nThe same goes for a family’s bank account. Families, just like the player’s in monopoly, need to keep track of the money coming into the bank account and what is going out. They need to make sure there is enough money to cover the things they need to pay for and that there is enough money to cover the things they want to spend money on. They need to be responsible with their money and realize they can’t go into debt.\n\nThe game of Monopoly teaches a lot of these principles. It is not a game of instant gratification. There are no easy money schemes. It’s a game that will test the mind and the ability to be responsible with money.\n\nIf you have kids, Monopoly is a great way to learn about personal finance. You don’t need to be an expert, but you do need to be willing to show them how to count and account for money.