Schools\n\n\nThis report focuses on the experiences of LGBT youth in the nation's public and private schools. This report shows that anti-LGBT victimization in school is a serious problem for a large number of students. It also provides data on other forms of bullying and discriminatory treatment that LGBT students experience. Some of the findings of this report are particularly disturbing. For example, over half (53.1 percent) of LGBT students experienced feeling unsafe in school because of their sexual orientation, over one-quarter (26.1 percent) because of their gender expression, and over one-third (35.2 percent) because of both their sexual orientation and gender expression. This harassment and discrimination takes a toll on these students' well-being. The impact of the harassment and discrimination experienced by LGBT students is serious. LGBT students were more likely than non-LGBT students to report several adverse outcomes. For example, they were more likely than non-LGBT students to report high levels of depression (33.1 percent of LGBT students compared to 19.8 percent of non-LGBT students), to have seriously considered attempting suicide (32.2 percent of LGBT students compared to 13.2 percent of non-LGBT students), and to have made a suicide attempt (21.8 percent of LGBT students compared to 4.3 percent of non-LGBT students). Students who were more highly victimized were also more likely to experience these negative outcomes. For example, compared to students who experienced little or no anti-LGBT victimization, students who experienced a great deal of anti-LGBT victimization were more than three times as likely to have been threatened or injured with a weapon on school property (10.0 percent compared to 3.6 percent), more than three times as likely to have been threatened or injured with a weapon off school property (14.7 percent compared to 4.3 percent), more than three times as likely to have experienced school violence (35.2 percent compared to 10.6 percent), more than four times as likely to have attempted suicide (25.0 percent compared to 5.7 percent), and more than six times as likely to have made a suicide attempt that required treatment from a doctor or nurse (10.4 percent compared to 1.8 percent).\n\nIntroduction\n\n\nThis report presents data from the National School Climate Survey (NCS), which collected data from over 7,000 lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) students ages 13–21 in public and private schools in every state and the District of Columbia during the spring of 2015. The report focuses on the experiences of LGBT students in public schools, but private school students' experiences are briefly discussed to provide context and additional information about the experiences of LGBT students in schools across the country.1 This report also includes a limited analysis of the data on the experiences of bisexual youth. This report provides the first national data on LGBT students' experiences in our nation's schools.\n\n\nLGBT students face a number of serious challenges at school, and this report provides a comprehensive look at the extent of the problem and its impact on LGBT students. Many LGBT students have experienced verbal harassment, physical assault, and sexual violence at school. For example, over half (53.1 percent) of LGBT students have felt unsafe at school because of their sexual orientation, over one-quarter (26.1 percent) because of their gender expression, and over one-third (35.2 percent) because of both their sexual orientation and gender expression. In addition, over one-third (35.2 percent) of LGBT students have been verbally harassed and 19.6 percent have been physically attacked at school in the past year because of their sexual orientation or gender expression. These figures are even higher for transgender students: over half (53.8 percent) have felt unsafe at school because of their gender expression and over one-third (36.2 percent) because of their gender identity. Furthermore, over one-quarter (27.2 percent) of LGBT students have missed at least one entire day of school in the past month because they felt unsafe or uncomfortable, and the prevalence of truancy increases further for transgender students: 40.1 percent of transgender students have missed at least one day of school in the past month because they felt unsafe or uncomfortable.\n\n\nThis report also shows that the harassment and discrimination that LGBT students experience can lead to serious and negative outcomes for these students, including lower school engagement, lower levels of happiness and life satisfaction, and higher levels of depression and even higher levels of suicidal behavior. Over one-third (34.7 percent) of LGBT students reported missing school for at least one day during the month before the survey because they felt unsafe or uncomfortable. Students who experienced more victimization because of their LGBT status were also more likely to report this type of adverse outcome. For example, compared to students who experienced little or no victimization, students who experienced a great deal of victimization were almost four times as likely to have missed at least one day of school in the month before the survey because they felt unsafe or uncomfortable (45.6 percent compared to 12.3 percent).\n\n\nThe negative impact of this victimization on LGBT students can be seen in their reports of lower levels of engagement in school activities, lower levels of happiness and life satisfaction, and higher levels of depression. LGBT students who experienced high levels of victimization because of their sexual orientation, gender expression, or both were more likely than students who experienced low levels of victimization to feel that they could not be themselves at school (68.6 percent compared to 42.2 percent) and to feel unhappy or depressed at school (40.7 percent compared to 19.5 percent). Students who experienced high levels of victimization because of their sexual orientation, gender expression, or both were also more likely to report symptoms of depression than students who experienced low levels of victimization. For example, compared to students who experienced little or no victimization, students who experienced high levels of victimization were almost twice as likely to report feeling unhappy or depressed (38.7 percent compared to 20.2 percent) and almost three times as likely to report feeling less happy than other students (14.3 percent compared to 5.4 percent).\n\n\nData from the 2015 NCS show that many students still face serious and pervasive mistreatment and discrimination at school. These experiences can have a serious negative impact on students' well-being. This is especially true for transgender and gender non-conforming students who are most likely to"