"The earlier section of this year was a bit rough for hip-hop fans. First, Pimp C died, then just about every major artist out of New York seemed to drop an album that was not good. The lack of good hip-hop is a recurring trend every year, but the quantity was overwhelming this year. As we approach the halfway point of 2009, however, it looks like things are beginning to get a little better. We’ve seen quality releases from rappers like Common and Q-Tip, some top-notch mixtapes from Yelawolf and Kendrick Lamar, and even a few good albums from the youngsters, Kid Cudi and Asher Roth. So far, it’s not quite the turnaround that we saw after the Grammys (but maybe the albums coming out in the second half will get people’s hopes up).\n\nSince I didn’t have time to write about all of the new releases, I figured I’d just mention a few of the ones that I like. In no particular order, these are my current favorites:\n\nCommon – The Dreamer/The Believer: I know, this album is old by now, but I’m still kind of surprised by how much I like it. I was a pretty big Common fan back in the ‘90s, but I’ve been relatively disappointed by his recent releases. This album, however, might be one of the best things he’s ever done. I mean, I never thought I’d be able to listen to an entire album of Common’s on repeat, but here we are. There are so many great tracks on this album. “Chi-City,” “Mr. Nigga,” “Dooinit,” “Hustle Harder,” and “They Say” are my favorites.\n\nKanye West – 808s and Heartbreak: After five really solid albums, it seems like Kanye has turned a corner. Instead of riding the waves of hype, he went out on his own and recorded an album that was entirely different from anything he’s ever done. This is not the first time Kanye has done something like this (see his work with Jay-Z on The Blueprint) and it’s quite possible that it won’t be the last. 808s and Heartbreak was a long time coming, and it might have been the album that made Kanye West.\n\nPusha T – Fear of God: Pusha T is really coming into his own. After his work on the Re-Up Gang’s We Got It 4 Cheap, he released this mixtape. The beats on this mixtape are really, really good. One of the things I really like about Pusha T’s music is that he sounds like he’s just going in on a beat. There are no really long, drawn-out verses. His delivery is quick, and it almost sounds like he’s not quite done when he’s actually done.\n\nAsher Roth – Asleep In The Bread Aisle: You would think that releasing an album called Asleep In The Bread Aisle would really affect the sales of the album. You know what? It doesn’t seem to have affected it much. The album has sold around 60,000 copies so far. I think it’s because it’s really good. His debut, Asleep In The Bread Aisle, is the first great album to come out of this generation of rappers. His next album will likely be the last time he’s able to sell this many copies. It’s a really good album, and it has some of the catchiest songs I’ve heard in a long time.\n\nKid Cudi – Man on the Moon: Welcome To The Dream Factory: For those of you who don’t know, Kid Cudi is a Cleveland rapper who is signed to Kanye’s G.O.O.D. Music label. His mixtape was, as you might expect, really good. And his first single, “Day N’ Nite” is an awesome song. It’s become a staple in my library, and I can listen to it a few times a day. This mixtape was great, and his upcoming album, Man on the Moon: The End of Day, is one of my most anticipated albums of the year.\n\nYelawolf – Trunk Muzik: I think that I’m really going to like Yelawolf’s upcoming album, Trunk Muzik 0-60. I really like this mixtape, and I think he’s one of the few rappers that’s out there that is really different from everyone else. His beats are really good, too. The song “Gangster” is my favorite, and he released a video for it, which you can check out here:\n\nAtmosphere – When Life Gives You Lemons, You Paint That Shit Gold: I’m not sure how I feel about this album. I think I’m one of the few people who doesn’t love it, but I’m not hating on it either. The production is a little different from what they usually do. It’s not as smooth, but it’s got a little more edge to it. Slug’s vocals are awesome as always. I’m just not sure how I feel about the overall product. It’s definitely not as good as the other albums they’ve released.\n\nThe Game – LAX: After his best album, The Documentary, The Game seems to have hit the dreaded sophomore slump. I didn’t like The Documentary, and I don’t like this one much, either. He has a lot of high-profile guests on this album (Dr. Dre, will.i.am, Kanye West), but none of them really save the album. I will say, however, that the singles he’s released off this album have been really good. “Sauce” with Lil Wayne and “Pot of Gold” are my favorites.\n\nThe final two albums that I have to mention are ones that I really enjoy, but for different reasons. I’m not sure how many people will like these albums, but I think they’re both worth mentioning.\n\nBusta Rhymes – Back On My B.S.: I was really happy when I heard that Busta was releasing a new album. It was only a few years ago that I stopped following him as closely as I used to, but this album made me realize that I needed to pay attention to him again. This album is not a great album, but it’s really fun. It’s actually Busta’s best album since Extinction Level Event: The Final World Front.\n\nJadakiss – The Last Kiss: I really like Jadakiss. I think that his flow and lyrics are really good. I also think he’s really funny. After his really good mixtape, D.I.A. (Do It All), I thought he would deliver something that would be a contender for the top 10 this year. Well, I was wrong. The Last Kiss is the worst album that Jadakiss has released to date. I was really disappointed when I heard it. It’s not that it’s bad, it’s just that I expected a lot more. If you’re looking for a mixtape with a lot of good songs, check out D.I.A. If you want to pick up one of his albums, go with The Kiss Of Death.\n\nThat’s all for now. I’ll have a review of Pharoahe Monch’s latest, W.A.R. (We Are Renegades), in a day or two, but I’m taking a break from rap for a little bit. There’s plenty of other stuff to write about, so I’ll probably be writing about a bunch of different stuff until the fall.\n\nAdvertisements