Bungie has confirmed a new competitive mode for Destiny 2, with a new ranking system and playlists.\n\nFollowing the release of the Curse of Osiris expansion, Destiny 2 will receive some new updates to the Crucible, as well as the addition of private matches for the first time. In a recent blog post on Bungie's website, it was confirmed that Crucible rank is returning to Destiny 2, and that it'll be more straightforward than it was before.\n\n"We believe that to earn your highest rewards, you should be playing the most challenging activities possible for your skill level," the post reads. "With that in mind, we’re making the following changes to the player investment required to reach your highest rank:\n\n- Strike-specific rewards (Medallions, Boots, Class Items, etc.) will no longer be tied to your highest achieved rank\n\n- You will be required to reach a specific rank (HM5) to earn the Nightfall-specific rewards\n\n- You will be required to reach a specific rank (HM5) to earn the Trials of the Nine reward weapons\n\n"In addition to the above changes, we’re also increasing the overall player investment in the Crucible by requiring a minimum Light of 251 to participate in the most challenging endgame activities."\n\nIn the same post, Bungie has confirmed a new ranking system and matchmaking for the Crucible, which will include new playlists.\n\n"To celebrate our launch of private matches and the new matchmaking system, we’re implementing a new system for ranking up in the Crucible. The highest rank you can achieve in Competitive play is now “Legend,” and your Glory will be available to view on our new Competitive playlist HUD. Glory earned in the Competitive playlist will be used to rank up within this new system. We’ll continue to expand on these improvements in the coming months."\n\nIt's interesting that the new rank system is being implemented for just the Competitive playlist, as well as the fact that your Glory is limited to a specific playlist. Hopefully, this doesn't mean there will be no more way to rank up in the Crucible outside of Competitive.\n\nAs part of the changes to the Crucible, Bungie is adding Private Matches to Destiny 2, which will be coming with the Curse of Osiris expansion in December.\n\n"If you’ve played our April Update, you’ve had a taste of what a competitive, matchmade experience can be like in Destiny 2. Now, we’re ready to give you the power to host your own private Crucible matches. This new feature will become available in the next update."\n\nPrivate matches can be played with two to twelve players, and will have matchmaking, as well as private lobbies. There will be a wide range of options available to players, with "full playlist and customization support". Private matches will also come with their own rewards.\n\nPrivate matches will be available to all players who own Destiny 2 and have access to Curse of Osiris. You'll be able to make them as accessible as you like, whether it's making it a full-scale party affair, or something more intimate. Whatever your needs are, we’re looking forward to you showing us what you’re made of in your own custom arenas."\n\nDestiny 2 is available now on Xbox One and PlayStation 4.\n\nSource: Bungie