On an early spring evening in 2008, I walked into a pub in the east end of Glasgow. The small bar was full of smoke and packed with about 20 people, mostly young men in their late teens and early twenties. The pub, near a notorious housing estate, had been recommended by a local resident as a good place to meet a white supremacist, a man who goes by the nom de plume of H finbar and who claims to have been in the British National Party (BNP) for about 15 years.\n\nI was following in the footsteps of David Berridge, a social psychologist at Oxford University, who conducted a controversial experiment to test how far racial prejudice could be reduced. Berridge selected 12 men from the BNP and told them that he was developing a computer game in which they would play the part of a house-buyer and have to make decisions on the best place to live. Berridge altered the outcomes of their choices to make it appear as if the men were rejecting homes in areas with high proportions of ethnic minorities.\n\nWhen they were told that their choices would result in them ending up in a house in a predominantly ethnic-minority neighbourhood, the men "didn't bat an eyelid", Berridge said. The research found that the men had strong, negative feelings towards ethnic minorities and some of them were, according to Berridge, "as extreme as any I've seen".\n\n"You could see it in their eyes and the way they reacted," he said. "They really believed that they were right and everyone else was wrong." Berridge had expected to see an initial show of outrage from the men but he was disappointed by the apparent ease with which the racist beliefs were accepted.\n\n"If I hadn't known what I was looking for, I wouldn't have seen it," he said. "I had to point it out to them. They were very gracious about accepting it."\n\nBerridge found that only a few weeks after the training, when they were asked about their attitudes, their beliefs were "considerably less extreme". The men had accepted that there was a racial minority living among them, although they continued to harbour negative feelings towards them. The white supremacists didn't completely change their views on immigration, as the results of Berridge's research were controversially revealed on BBC Two's Newsnight in January 2009.\n\nAs a social scientist, I had mixed feelings about the experiment. The men were racist and their beliefs needed to be challenged, but it seemed inappropriate to train them to be less racist. Berridge said that this wasn't the point of his experiment. The aim was to test whether it was possible to reduce the extent of their prejudice. It was important to know the limits of the possible, he said.\n\nAttitudes, whether towards ethnic minorities, women, disabled people, fat people or the rich, influence what we do and how we act towards others. They can manifest themselves in the workplace and in the wider community and, as in Berridge's experiment, they can also be reduced.\n\nOur attitudes are influenced by our experiences, the people we associate with and what we see in the media. If we are surrounded by positive attitudes towards a particular group, we are more likely to develop positive attitudes towards them. If, however, we are surrounded by negative attitudes, we are more likely to share them.\n\nAttitudes can be improved or challenged. Is there a tipping point beyond which attitudes cannot be changed? Or can they be changed by someone without your consent? What can you do to change someone else's attitude?\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary (OED) defines attitudes as "one's personal view of another or others, especially when based on bias or prejudice". It is a psychological term that has grown out of social and cultural anthropology. In the early 1970s, it was often used to refer to the combined set of behaviours, body language and non-verbal cues that communicate a person's attitudes to the outside world.\n\nWe use the word "attitude" when we discuss our personal beliefs and our views on society and politics. "What is your attitude to same-sex marriage?" "Should a woman be allowed to go topless in public?" "How do you feel about the war in Iraq?" "Do you support the war on drugs?" "What's your attitude to the death penalty?"\n\n"The attitude of the work force is a constant source of concern to the management." "The standard of behaviour is all too often lacking, and is a cause for great concern among the general public." These are three examples from the Guardian newspaper illustrating how the term has been used. It is a term that captures a feeling about something or someone, as well as the thinking and emotions that lie behind our thoughts and feelings.\n\nWe think that we can infer what a person is thinking from their attitude. The roots of this are contained in the word itself, which comes from the Latin attitudināre, meaning "to make an attitude or assume an attitude", from attitudinis, meaning "of the attitude". Attitudes can also be unconscious. We might not be aware of our attitudes but they nevertheless influence our behaviour.\n\nWhen we discuss attitudes, we are describing "a combination of cognition and affect (feeling or emotion)", according to Silvia Knobloch-Westerwick, a social psychologist at Ohio State University in the US. She describes attitudes as an integrated cognitive and affective state that influences how we think about and behave towards other people. Our attitudes, Knobloch-Westerwick says, also influence our values, which are "enduring beliefs about what is desirable". Our attitudes and values reflect what is important to us and affect how we respond to the world around us.\n\nPsychologists and social scientists have attempted to determine how attitudes are formed and how they are changed. They have explored whether there is a tipping point beyond which attitudes cannot be changed.\n\nAttitudes can be revealed through the process of attitude measurement. A set of statements is used to assess an attitude. These statements are designed to elicit the respondents' attitudes, and they are commonly called attitude measures. The respondents are asked to agree or disagree with these statements.\n\nThe respondents are likely to change their responses if the statements are modified. Attitude measures often use pairs of statements. One statement in the pair will tend to support a particular view and the other will tend to oppose that view. For example, in the classic attitude measure known as the "four-point Likert scale", a series of statements is given and the respondent is asked to pick the one that comes closest to their attitude. The statements are then given in pairs and the respondent is asked to pick which one comes closest to their attitude. This method is also known as the semantic differential technique.\n\nThe best-known attitude measure is the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, which was originally developed to test for psychopathology. It consists of statements in which the respondent is asked to choose between two options and pick the one that comes closest to their attitude. Other measures have been developed to measure opinions on a variety of issues, such as gender roles, political and moral opinions, personality characteristics and personality disorders.\n\nOne such measure is the so-called authoritarian scale. This was first developed in 1958 by the US psychologist Bertram Raven. It consists of statements that are asked to assess a respondent's support for a hierarchical and conformist society. In this measure, the respondent is asked to say how much they agree with a series of statements.\n\nOne example is: "Sometimes other people have ideas that are dangerous and bad for everyone. I have an obligation to put my ideas in the proper place, so people won't get them and follow them." Another example is: "There will always be people who are so lazy and disorderly that they cannot be trusted to have the same rights as others. They should be helped, but they cannot be trusted to do what is best for them."\n\nThe statements are also divided into those with a democratic orientation (such as "Children should be allowed to say anything at all in school") and those with a non-democratic orientation (such as "Children should be seen and not heard"). The measure has been used to assess the authoritarian attitudes of police officers and judges.\n\nAttitude measures have been used to determine the level of support for the political parties. The UK Labour Party, for example, has used them in its efforts to change the public's views.\n\nIn the 1980s, a Labour Party councillor in West Yorkshire, David Blunkett, thought that it would be a"