As a manufacturer, it is easy to produce one-of-a-kind pieces, but even easier to make a product for everyone, because every piece is made to the same specifications. What happens when you decide to make a new product and to have a bigger impact? You might think that you have to start with an already existing product and create something new. But this is not always true.\n\nSometimes you need to start from scratch and create something new – a new form, a new material, new applications or new customer experiences. This is what happened when Ikea created the LÖMSK light collection – a range of products made of plaster and leather, using two materials that we usually associate with other products.\n\nLÖMSK: it´s easy being a one-of-a-kind light\n\nTwo elements were the starting point of the LÖMSK light collection: an existing material and a very unusual use for it. Plaster and leather are very traditional materials that are linked to very different products. We know plaster for its use in wallpapers, ceilings and sculptures, but it is not very common to use it in products such as lights or furniture. Leather has a much stronger association with leather goods, clothes, bags or shoes. And in fact, leather is one of the most used materials in the furniture industry.\n\nTwo products, plaster and leather, that are very common to different types of industries but never used together.\n\nIkea wanted to combine these two materials in a collection of lights, lamps and other decorative elements, in order to make a complete lighting system that can be easily incorporated into any interior and made more personal.\n\nA creative team started exploring ways of using these two materials in a complete lighting collection. They started experimenting with different elements such as the light bulb and the suspension, to combine them and to make sure they can adapt to the maximum number of situations. The development of the light was not a process of making a more perfect product, but rather a process of exploring new ways of using existing products.\n\nAs a result, they developed three series of products. One made of plaster and leather, and two others made of plaster. The leather light is one of the most surprising elements in the collection, as it is hard to believe that this kind of leather is the same that we see in jackets or shoes.\n\nThe leather used in the light is dyed in different colours in order to add interest to the design and it is used to create the “U” shape that holds the light bulb. This element was designed to be a flexible element in the light, allowing the user to change the direction of the light and adapt it to different uses.\n\nFinally, the leather light can also be suspended with a wire, making it ideal for reading lights.\n\nThe second series, made of plaster, is the plateroom series, and the third series is a collection of lamps made of plaster with different shades. The aim was to use plaster to make different types of lamps that can adapt to the different sizes of space. This is achieved by combining the plaster with different shades and creating elements such as the plateroom bench and the plateroom table, with different dimensions and shades.\n\nThere is an important message that Ikea wants to communicate with this collection: that it is possible to create something new and original.\n\nYou need to start with something simple but at the same time creative and unusual. This is what Ikea wants to achieve with this collection: creating a new product that is easy to understand and appreciate, but at the same time has an innovative design and can be used in different types of interior.\n\nThis can be achieved by starting with a very simple element and having an open mind, as the designers did with this collection. Ikea has created a very unusual product that is adaptable to different situations and can be adapted to any kind of interior or architecture.