Photo\n\nThe Christian Science Monitor is the country’s leading source of independent, global news and insight. Its perceptive and experienced editors keep a sharp eye on world events and provide insightful analysis on issues of U.S. and international concern. In our Web Focus series, the Monitor’s editors weigh in on timely topics with extended essays meant to take a broad look at the forces shaping our world.\n\nWhat’s a “cyber-9/11”? A cyberattack on a nuclear facility or a major dam that could release enough water to drown a major American city? A digital assault on the nation’s banking system or a threat to the electrical grid that could plunge millions of Americans into darkness? The recent warnings from Gen. Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the National Security Agency director, Gen. Keith Alexander, suggest that such nightmare scenarios are indeed a possibility.\n\nBut if U.S. intelligence officials are to be believed, the greatest threat is an assault on the nation’s financial institutions. After Dempsey warned Congress that the U.S. could “see cyber incidents that have physical effects on our critical infrastructure,” Alexander echoed his remarks by noting, “A cyberattack that could have physical effects, that is the greatest fear.”\n\nThe consensus is that a catastrophic cyberattack could wreak havoc on the U.S. economy. The reality, however, is far more complex and nuanced.\n\nDespite claims of major foreign-government backing for a digital assault on American banks, the truth is that such an operation is very unlikely. In recent years, foreign cyberintelligence agencies have tried to collect sensitive information about banks, including the names and Social Security numbers of their customers. A similar campaign targeting American credit-card companies in 2011 was likely perpetrated by the Syrian Electronic Army, a group of hackers supporting the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. This operation was relatively easy and inexpensive to conduct.\n\nThe reality is that America’s banking system is highly resilient. Even after the catastrophic events of 2008, when hundreds of small and medium-sized banks failed, the country’s largest institutions emerged from the wreckage of the subprime mortgage crisis in better shape than ever.\n\nThe system as a whole remains sound and is well capitalized. America’s banks remain the best-run financial institutions in the world.\n\nAnother myth is that a digital assault on U.S. banks could cause financial panic. Such claims are hyperbolic. Bank customers in this country have ready access to digital accounts, and those who rely on more traditional methods, such as a teller, are quickly switching to digital channels as well.\n\nA cyberattack on America’s banking system might undermine confidence in the safety of its networks, but there is little to indicate that customers would take their money out of banks in a large-scale panic. In 2011, when many U.S. banks suffered from a series of hacking attacks, there was no bank run. The attacks caused brief hiccups in the banking system but no lasting harm.\n\nThe threat that’s garnering the most attention these days is an attack on the U.S. financial system from a foreign power. In 2010, the New York Times reported that China had hacked into the computers of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the FBI arrested several suspects who were working at JPMorgan Chase and at least one other bank.\n\nIn response, the National Security Agency and the Department of Homeland Security launched an initiative to secure the American financial system from foreign-government attacks.\n\nThe odds of a major cyberattack from China or Russia are far less likely than most people believe. An American bank has little to gain from being penetrated by hackers. Both countries have thriving black markets in information that could be sold to interested parties, and the purchase price would be higher than the cost of a sophisticated cyberattack.\n\nThe most plausible threat is a “disruptive” attack that, as Gen. Alexander put it, “isn’t to crash the system but to interrupt it in some way, to make people aware that the system isn’t safe.” Such an operation could easily come from a criminal hacker or foreign-government operatives. An attack that exposed confidential information would shake consumer confidence, but there is little"