\n\nIt’s been well over a month now since we took delivery of our 2016 Yamaha FZ-07 and we finally have a pretty good idea of what we think about this motorcycle and how it stacks up against its competition.\n\nThe Yamaha FZ-07 is in an interesting place for a variety of reasons. First, the bike is somewhat unique in the market. Not only is it the smallest and most nimble of all the bikes it’s pitted against (Honda CBR650F, Kawasaki Ninja 650, Suzuki GSX-S750, and KTM 690 Duke), it’s also probably the least expensive bike in the comparison. And that’s just the beginning of the story.\n\nAfter riding this bike for a month, it’s clear that there’s a pretty unique market for this bike. First, this is a bike for the younger crowd. This is not a bike for anyone over 30. It’s too small and low-slung and while the seat height is good (the same as a KTM 690 Duke), it’s still too small for someone our age to really enjoy. But that’s not the main reason why this bike is a niche bike.\n\nThe main reason is the lack of displacement. The FZ-07 makes just 113 horsepower. Even the Honda CBR650F, the least powerful bike in the comparison, makes 13 more ponies than the FZ-07. So it’s not so much the bike is underpowered, it’s just not as powerful as the other bikes in the comparison. But, as we’ve already learned, that’s not necessarily a bad thing.\n\nThe FZ-07’s purpose isn’t to take you on the highway at speeds of 80 mph or even take you to the local Starbucks. This bike is about the fun you have on a twisty road, not the highway. And while it’s fun to take to the highway and carve the corners at 80 mph, this is a bike that really thrives on the twisty roads.\n\nThis is the smallest bike in the comparison and the one that is easiest to chuck into corners and weave through traffic. The narrow seat and low seat height make it a great option for a newer rider. This is an easy motorcycle to just jump on and ride.\n\nThe bike is super nimble and eager to turn. That makes it a great choice for someone looking for something a little more agile than a standard middleweight bike. But, to be honest, the FZ-07 really felt like the perfect size for us. We can’t imagine anyone who would fit this bike and not really enjoy it.\n\nOn the power side of things, the FZ-07 has a sort of pseudo-Twin character. While the engine is definitely not a Twin, the throttle response and overall power character of the bike are very Twin-like.\n\nIt’s an easy throttle and it always feels like the power comes on pretty hard. This makes the bike a fun bike to ride. But, it also makes the bike a pretty easy one to over-rev. It’s pretty easy to wind it up and get it to the limiter. But that’s part of what we enjoy about the bike. It’s sort of like the FZ-09, but smaller.\n\nOn the FZ-07, you get a bunch of engine power to help you go fast and a bike that’s not nearly as intimidating as the FZ-09. The power delivery feels almost like a smaller, less-intimidating version of the FZ-09.\n\nFor a rider who isn’t looking to go incredibly fast, but who enjoys a little excitement, the FZ-07 is the perfect bike. And the bike is fun. Not only is it fun to ride, but it’s also a pretty practical option for a lot of people. It’s small enough to maneuver through the urban jungle, but it’s big enough that the rider will feel comfortable and not like they’re on a child’s toy.\n\nWhile we’re not saying that this bike is a child’s toy, we will say that it’s a pretty easy bike to throw around. And the bike is probably the one that we’d recommend for the casual rider looking for a good, fun, sporty motorcycle.\n\nNow, there are some things that we don’t like about this bike. And they’re mostly the same things we didn’t like about"