LINGUIST List 12.2282\n\nThu Apr 26 2001\n\nReview: Discourse Studies\n\nEditor for this issue: Terence Langendoen <terry linguistlist.org>\n\nDirectory\n\nMessage 1: Genre Analysis and Discourse Analysis\n\nKen Hyland, Introducing Discourse Analysis (Blackwell Introductions to Applied Linguistics) , xii+267pp, paperback ISBN 0-631-22512-8, hardback ISBN 0-631-22511-X, $47.95 / ??35.00 The blurb on the back: This textbook introduces students to the main traditions of discourse analysis, from structuralism to modern approaches, and includes many examples of actual texts for study and analysis. Hyland has developed his own approach, based on a number of leading methods, to show the student how to apply them to language use. Divided into four parts, this book explores the key concepts, applications and findings of these methods, in the first section looking at language and discourse as a unit, in the second examining patterns of text structure, in the third explaining how discourse is used to construct particular kinds of meaning, and in the fourth looking at how we study discourse. The first three sections introduce three different approaches to discourse analysis - the macro-structural approaches of Saussure and Gee, the micro-structural approach of Halliday, and the interpersonal approaches of Brown and Hodge. The last section explores ways in which different kinds of discourse are studied, including conversation, literature, power, work and the media. What I liked: This is an excellent textbook. It provides a good survey of a range of discourses analysis approaches and provides clear descriptions of the methodological principles of these approaches. This is an approachable introduction to a complex and diverse field. The topics covered include the analysis of conversation, text and the various modes of literature. Hyland shows how the same principles can be applied to these different types of text. He draws on a wide range of literature to show how discourses can be studied and includes many examples of actual texts. The book is very clearly written, contains many well-chosen examples, and provides a good introduction to a subject which is likely to be of increasing interest to Linguists. What I didn't like: The chapter on the analysis of conversation and the chapter on the analysis of discourse in fictional texts would benefit from a more rigorous discussion of the key concepts used in this type of analysis. For example, the chapter on conversation provides an excellent introduction to this type of discourse, but it would be better if there was a clearer discussion of the concepts of turn-taking and overlap, and a more careful explanation of the use of 'look-back' studies and the main types of transcription. The chapter on discourse in fictional texts provides an introduction to a type of analysis which has not been covered elsewhere in the book, and this is an important addition to the text. However, this chapter does not include the discussion of the key concepts of discourse analysis which is provided in the other chapters. It would have been better if this chapter could have followed the same format as the other chapters, and discussed how a particular approach was developed, what its key concepts are, and how these concepts can be applied. I think that this is an important addition to the book. Another minor point is that there are several typos in the book, but I don't think that this detracts from the overall quality of the book. What is missing: A discussion of the key concepts of discourse analysis which can be applied to all types of text.