"Time Warner Cable reported first quarter financial results Wednesday and Chairman and CEO Glenn Britt said that the company remains committed to delivering high quality products and great customer service.\n\n“Our core business is operating effectively and we are focused on initiatives that will deliver long-term growth. We remain committed to delivering high quality products and great customer service to our customers,” Britt said in a statement.\n\nThe media and communications company posted earnings of $243 million, or 84 cents per share, on revenues of $5.8 billion. Both figures were better than analyst expectations. The company’s net income was down 15 percent from the previous year, but the earnings were still in line with the company’s previous forecast.\n\nTime Warner Cable said its core business operations grew 8.7 percent in the quarter. Total residential customers increased for the third consecutive quarter, increasing 1.7 percent to 11.8 million customers. The company also added 390,000 high-speed data customers in the quarter.\n\n“We continued to invest in our network to provide the best experience for our customers. In the quarter, we deployed more than 125,000 new customer premise equipment connections and performed nearly 800,000 installations,” Britt said. “In the quarter, we also significantly expanded our network capabilities to better deliver video and data over our network. We are pleased with the growth in our total high-speed data base, and are optimistic about our ability to continue to grow our business and create value for our customers and shareholders.”\n\nTime Warner Cable said it now serves more than 16 million video subscribers, which is nearly one-third of all basic video subscribers in the U.S. The company also said it has made improvements to its residential service bundle package, which now includes TV and broadband for $89.99 per month.\n\n“We are pleased with our continued revenue growth and our ability to produce excellent operating income and cash flow in the first quarter,” said Chief Financial Officer Irene Esteves. “With our steady business growth and the additional flexibility resulting from our recent access line divestitures, we are well positioned to execute on our initiatives to drive continued profitability.”\n\nImage via Flickr user Otto Timm.