The Saint of Lost Things, Laura McHugh\n\nNot even the blurb for The Saint of Lost Things could make me excited to read it. I hate the tone, the narrator’s tone, I hate the whiny, childish quality of it. It’s weirdly a tone I feel is becoming common in YA, although it’s more often a tone than overt. This book, however, has it in spades, and while it is part of the personality of the narrator, there was just too much of it for me to ignore. And it put me off the book. A lot.\n\nSo, a young girl comes to the “Big City” to find her estranged father. It’s not a good situation, she’s forced to beg for money on the street and sleep in a laundromat, but when she hears of an organization that collects lost things for its patrons, she goes to the premises of the Society of Lost Things and becomes a member. The Society of Lost Things is essentially a hotel for lost things, it houses objects that have been misplaced or lost, and its employees, called “guardians,” are people who have lost something in their lives. The lost things come to the Society of Lost Things because there is someone out there looking for them, and they want to be found.\n\nThere is so much more to this story than this, but it seems like a jumbled mess to try to write about. And I don’t think I would do it justice. The premise is lovely, and I loved the parts with some magic, but there was too much about this story that felt unfinished and inconclusive, and it never felt like a cohesive whole. It wasn’t that I didn’t like it, but I think that I would have liked it more if I had been less invested in the characters and their stories.\n\nReading this, I kept thinking of these two different books, and I’m going to review them both.\n\nWhen We Collided, Emery Lord\n\nWhen We Collided has a very similar feel to The Saint of Lost Things. Both are set in the “Big City” in New York City. Both have teenagers dealing with difficult family situations. Both have teenagers who are left alone and vulnerable. But the similarities don’t end there, there are two protagonists in each novel, and both of them are lost. It’s hard to tell where their story ends and the other one’s begins. But these similarities don’t end there. Each of the protagonists have lost people, in different ways, but they’re both trying to find themselves and figure out who they are. But their similarities are not what made me think of this book.\n\nWhen We Collided is about Tessa, a young girl who is on the verge of her senior year in high school, and Leo, a boy who lives with his dad and has a bit of a drug problem. Tessa has a relationship with a much older guy, and he comes into her life again in the most unexpected way. She decides that she needs to get away from her home situation, which is getting more and more dire, and so she flees to California. Her arrival in California happens almost in the same way as her arrival in the “Big City” in The Saint of Lost Things. She lives on the street and survives by selling her jewelry. Then she meets Leo.\n\nSo, When We Collided and The Saint of Lost Things have so much in common, and yet I loved one and was just fine with the other. They have very different feel, and I think it’s because they have very different characters. I think that the characters in When We Collided were the main reason that I loved it so much. Leo and Tessa are so different, and I loved both of them. Leo has some pretty serious drug issues, but he’s very open and honest about it, and I really liked that. He has some very honest conversations with Tessa, and they’re awkward and heartfelt and really beautifully written. But Leo also has this quirkiness about him, this innocence that I think is so refreshing. Leo, even though he does have some pretty serious drug issues, has not had a lot of life experience, and I think he has a kind of innocence about him. But he’s also really loyal and honest, and that’s what makes him so endearing. Tessa, on the other hand, is very passionate and loyal and honest and fierce and brave, but she’s also very headstrong and self-doubting, which makes for a very intriguing character.\n\nI loved the intermingling of Tessa’s story with Leo’s, I loved that the story wasn’t just one that followed Tessa, but that Leo was really there to help Tessa along the way. It was a very interesting read, I was sucked in almost instantly and stayed there until the end.\n\nHave you read either of these books? If you have, what did you think of them? Do you have any suggestions of books that are similar to them? I’d love to hear your thoughts.\n\nAdvertisements