The 168th Semiannual General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints begins today. This will be the last time for six years that conference will be held in the Salt Lake City Tabernacle on Temple Square. The event will be broadcast live in English, Spanish and Portuguese to millions of viewers around the world.\n\nDownloadable HD video for journalists\n\nDownloadable HD video for journalists\n\nDownloadable HD video for journalists\n\nThe October general conference sessions are always held in the Conference Center on Temple Square in downtown Salt Lake City. The Conference Center was completed in 2000 and has been the location for the LDS Church's general conference sessions since that time.\n\nThe Conference Center seats 21,000 people, more than the Tabernacle on Temple Square. Although the Tabernacle was designed to seat more than 10,000 people, it has not been used for general conference in many years.\n\nThe Tabernacle, constructed in 1867, is the second oldest religious building in Utah and the oldest on Temple Square. The building has had many names and occupants, and it was damaged by fire several times.\n\nThe Tabernacle was the first home of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and was used by the choir and others as a temporary home until the Assembly Hall was completed in 1877. The Tabernacle then became the home of the world-renowned choir for the next 62 years.\n\nThe Tabernacle was gutted by fire in 1867, 1873 and 1882. The fire in 1867 destroyed the roof, and the Tabernacle was closed for a year. Reconstruction and repairs were made quickly, and the Tabernacle reopened on July 4, 1868.\n\nThe Tabernacle, built of rock, mortar and local timber, was the only building on Temple Square for 30 years. In 1888, the Assembly Hall, built of wood, was added.\n\nThe Manti Temple, constructed in 1888, was the first building on Temple Square to be constructed of stone. The Utah State Capitol was completed in 1896, and the Temple block in Salt Lake City was becoming an architectural showcase.\n\nIn 1893, the Salt Lake Temple, constructed of granite and marble, was completed. The Salt Lake Temple and Tabernacle were designed by church architect Truman O. Angell. In addition to his work for the church, he designed the Cathedral of the Madeleine and the Ogden Tabernacle.\n\nDuring construction of the Temple and Tabernacle, Angell took measurements and photographs of the original Nauvoo Temple. Those measurements and photos provided the basis for construction of the Nauvoo Temple, which was completed in 2002.\n\nAfter the completion of the Salt Lake Temple, many of the early leaders of the LDS Church felt the need to have another temple built in Salt Lake City to accommodate the thousands of faithful members who could not live in the Salt Lake Valley.\n\nWork on the Endowment House, the temple precursor, began in 1855. However, construction was delayed because of a financial depression. The LDS Church decided to cease construction of the Endowment House in 1856 and to use the structure as a school for Indian children.\n\nIn 1869, construction of the Endowment House resumed. The original plan called for an expanded facility, but the leaders of the LDS Church decided to keep the building small, and the temple ordinances were performed in the Endowment House for the next 62 years.\n\nThe Endowment House was destroyed by fire on the morning of Dec. 17, 1892. The decision to build a new temple was made immediately, and the location of the new temple was decided in the afternoon.\n\nThe decision to build a new temple came from the experiences of church president Wilford Woodruff in the St. George Temple. Woodruff often stayed in the St. George Temple during visits to southern Utah. During one of those visits, he had a dream in which he saw an angel. The angel instructed him to return to the St. George Temple and perform the sacred endowments.\n\nUpon his return, Woodruff was unable to locate the temple and was disappointed. However, as he was returning to his hotel, he had a second dream in which he again saw the angel. The angel instructed Woodruff to perform the sacred endowments in the St. George Temple as soon as possible.\n\nIn addition, the LDS Church presidency was in dire need of a new temple. The Endowment House was becoming crowded and was not large enough for the members.\n\nAfter his experiences in St. George, Woodruff was directed by an angel to build a new temple. The building committee selected the site in 1892 and selected the current location for the temple in 1894.\n\nThe LDS Church has been in continuous construction of temples since 1833, when the Kirtland Temple was completed. The first temple was destroyed in a fire in 1838.\n\nAs of the beginning of the semiannual general conference on Oct. 3, 2016, there were 137 temples in operation around the world and a total of 148 in various stages of construction. The first LDS temple outside of the United States was built in Bern, Switzerland, and dedicated in 1955.\n\nThe Salt Lake Temple, the oldest LDS temple still in operation, is in the final stages of a two-year renovation.\n\nThe conference sessions will begin with a meeting of general conference leadership, including the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, at 6:30 p.m. MST on Thursday.\n\nOn Friday, the session will begin at 9 a.m. and be broadcast live on the LDS Church satellite system and on Mormon Channel, with rebroadcasts throughout the day.\n\nThe priesthood and Sunday sessions will be held at 10 a.m. The general priesthood meeting will be broadcast live on Mormon Channel and on the LDS Church satellite system, with rebroadcasts throughout the day.\n\nThe general women's meeting will be held at 5 p.m. The meeting will be broadcast live on Mormon Channel and on the LDS Church satellite system, with rebroadcasts throughout the day.\n\nThe general sessions on Saturday will begin at 10 a.m. The priesthood and Sunday sessions will be held at 1 p.m. Both of the Saturday sessions will be broadcast live on Mormon Channel and on the LDS Church satellite system, with rebroadcasts throughout the day.\n\nFollowing the conference sessions, the Tabernacle Choir will present a concert in the Conference Center at 8 p.m. on Saturday, which will be broadcast live on the LDS Church satellite system and on Mormon Channel.\n\n[email protected]