"[Editor’s note: We get a lot of submissions from industry organizations like RILA, NCPA, FMI, etc., and we love it when they are well-done. This piece was sent to us from FMI’s public affairs director Mike Haftka and was so good that we asked if we could publish it here. It has just a couple edits from the original. As always, all opinions are his own.]\n\nIt is clear that the well-organized government-sector labor unions have been spending big time to demonize farmers, and the rest of the industry as well, in an effort to advance their own interests. It is time to push back.\n\nWhile the politicians involved in the passage of the 2013 farm bill have been lionized for their actions, it was actually the members of the grassroots, the vast majority of whom are not farm owners, that saved the farm bill.\n\nAlthough the House of Representatives only received a 5 percent score from the AFBF, according to the FMI’s own scorecard, a significantly larger number of lawmakers voted with the FMI’s policy recommendations when it came time to actually cast a vote on the 2013 farm bill. That is a big difference, one that makes the distinction between the union’s demonization of farmers and the reality of farmers’ lives crystal clear.\n\nSome of the most vocal advocates of farmers in the media are organizations and individuals that are largely funded by the food stamp program. The same groups pushing to expand food stamps are lobbying for higher farm prices. Their message is confusing, even contradictory, and it simply does not resonate with voters.\n\nThe farm bill was also a big winner for consumers. The American Farm Bureau’s own report, which tracks consumer prices, found that the price of fresh fruits and vegetables fell by more than 9 percent in 2013. Americans may not like to think of farmers as price makers, but there is no question that low commodity prices resulted in lower prices for consumers.\n\nAs the current farm bill continues through the process, and in anticipation of the 2014 midterm elections, we need to make sure that the politicians we elect are being held accountable for the actual impacts of the farm bill.\n\nNo amount of lobbying is going to influence the farm bill debate if it is going to be followed by groups that are financed by the food stamp program. If these groups are going to lobby on behalf of farmers, then they need to learn how to talk like farmers.