By “special”, I mean, “a man who plays a very particular role”. This man is a type of “performer”, a type that is often put forward in business culture and in the literature of business leadership, and many men admire it and want to be seen as this type of man. It is the man who is never at a loss for words, and always knows exactly what to say, and is a good listener too. He has an instinctive understanding of people’s moods and emotions. He is the man with the plan. He knows what’s going on. He has a direct influence on others. He is never without a list of bullet-points, even if he’s just going into the shop. He’s good at handling pressure and he’s a team player. He is the man who is looked to for a reaction.\n\nYou can call this type of man many different things. I am going to call him a “business executive”, as it is most widely-used, but it is also a term that is rather different from the role of “business leader”, and which I will also address. I am a business executive, and I have been a business executive for as long as I can remember, and I’m a fairly typical example of a business executive. I think that most people reading this will find that it accurately describes at least a few men that they know.\n\nMost men aspire to this particular role. Some men even feel a burning need to play it. They will not be happy or feel satisfied in life unless they are in this particular role. They often judge themselves by it. They have a high level of need and drive to be a business executive.\n\nBeing a business executive is one of the “good” ways to be a man, it is one of the ways in which men “make a difference” and “have an impact”. It is also one of the ways in which men achieve “respect”, “respect” being an essential element in most men’s internal lives. Many men do feel that it is through this role that they will achieve respect, in the same way that they might feel that they achieve respect in the rest of their life. They might not be consciously aware of this, and they may have a lot of other reasons for doing what they do, but respect is there, and is an important part of their motivation.\n\nThis type of role is one of the ways in which men achieve success and status. It is also one of the ways in which they can “gain influence” and “change things”. It is the way that they “help people” and “change things” and “make a difference”. It is the way that men can “have a great career”, and achieve “success”, and “be respected”, and “make money”.\n\nIt is not necessary to believe that these are the only or even the most important reasons for having a job. In my experience, most people, male and female, care about these things to some degree or other. I am not attempting to persuade anyone that these are “unimportant” things, I am not setting out to denigrate them. But it is important to understand that these are reasons for working. People, both male and female, need these things, and it is to these needs that they often respond when asked why they work.\n\nBusiness executives often find it easy to get good work. Many people are happy to trust their judgement, because they are good at understanding the people around them, and they can provide answers to difficult questions. They often find it easy to get good work, and they may have a number of people to choose from when looking for a new job.\n\nThey often feel that they are “justified” and “have a right” to be in the position that they are in. They have earned it.\n\nThis type of role is very similar to that of “business leader”, but these are very different roles. Many people confuse them, and use them as synonyms, and they are often referred to as such in business literature and the popular media. They are not synonyms. They are two different roles, and their differences can be seen in the relationship of the people around them.\n\nThe business executive is a man who is often very popular and well-liked. He is a man who is often admired. He is often seen as the man to turn to for answers. People come to him to find out what is going on, and to find out what to do. He often knows what to say, and he has an instinctive understanding of people’s moods and emotions, and a quick and accurate understanding of the situations that he is faced with. He is a man who is often used by other people as a sounding-board, as a person to talk things over with, as a man to provide feedback and reaction.\n\nBut this is often not the case with the business leader. He often gets into trouble with the people around him, and he often gets an awkward response to his advice. He is not often looked to for feedback or reactions. He often does not feel that he has the understanding that he wants, and that he needs, and that he feels he deserves. He often feels that he is not looked to as much as he would like, and that people would turn to someone else if he were not there.\n\nThis type of role is the most important in a business organisation. It is not a role that most men can aspire to. In fact, I would say that most men do not aspire to it. And for many, if not most, men it is not a role that they can play well.\n\nFor many men, playing this role will lead them into unhappiness. They will feel frustrated and unhappy, and it is often a role that causes men to turn against the organisation that they are working for.\n\nMany men who try to be business executives will often find themselves in a difficult situation. Many men will find that they are working for organisations that do not have a business executive position. They will find that they are attempting to play a role that does not exist in the organisation that they are working for.\n\nMany men are unhappy when they try to be business executives. Many of them will be unhappy if they do not play that role.\n\nThere are, of course, many other types of men, and many other types of roles that they play. But this particular type of man and role is a very special one.\n\nA case study of a “business executive”\n\nThis is a man who is very good at his job, a very clever and able man, a man who has an instinctive understanding of people’s moods and emotions, and who has a natural ability to speak effectively and confidently to other people. He has a good understanding of other people, and he has an ability to work with other people. He understands other people’s motivations and he understands what is important to them. He has a good understanding of what people will do, what they will say, and what they will not say, and he understands what is going to happen and how things will turn out. He understands people’s moods and emotions. He is quick to understand how things are going to turn out, and he is quick to make decisions.\n\nThis man is a good communicator. He is the type of man who people turn to for reactions. He is the man who knows what to say, and who knows how to say it. He is good at dealing with difficult people, and he can handle difficult situations. He is good at explaining things to other people. He is good at handling pressure, he is good at dealing with crises, and he is good at giving people confidence.\n\nThis man has a good understanding of his organisation, and he has a good understanding of his work. He is often the man that people go to when they need information. He is the man who has a good overview of the situation.\n\nThis man has a good understanding of his organisation’s finances. He has a good understanding of his organisation’s future, and he can see things that other people cannot see. He is the man who knows what is going to happen. He is a man who has the answers, and a man who knows what to do. He has the information that other people need. He has an instinctive understanding of his organisation’s situation. He has a good overview of the situation. He is good at taking decisions.\n\nThis man can be effective at many things. He is good at working with other people. He is good at providing feedback. He is good at explaining things to people. He is good at providing support and comfort to people. He is good at listening to people and taking them seriously. He is good at convincing people. He is good at getting people to agree to things. He is good at persuading people. He is good at making plans. He is good at using his initiative. He is good at seeing what is going on. He is good at moving things forward.\n\nThis man is used to being respected, and he is used to people listening to him. He is used to being popular. He is used to having an influence on people. He is used to"