"Liner Notes\n\nSandra:\n\nWhile I was performing at the coffeehouse one night, several women came up to me and said they had a new organization and asked me to get involved. They were the Mother's to the Rescue. They wanted to speak out against the abuse of their children, a topic that is always close to my heart. I met a member of the group and began meeting with her to get information on the organization. She told me that their group was designed to help mothers who were afraid to speak out against the abuse of their children for fear of reprisal. They were concerned that if mothers got involved in speaking out against their spouses, they would lose their children, and the mothers were afraid of being separated from their children. After months of meetings with the group, I decided to join the organization.\n\nIt was the Mother's to the Rescue that asked me to do this recording, so that their voices could be heard. It was the Mother's to the Rescue that allowed me to visit them and to use their stories to speak out against abuse. I've had many talks with mothers who have been raped and abused and who don't know what to do or who to turn to. It's very difficult to have to go through this kind of a tragedy alone. It's even more difficult to have to stay silent about it. I can understand why the mother's want to keep it a secret. I wouldn't want to let anyone know, either. And I would be frightened to death of the results.\n\nI can remember the first time I felt that I wasn't being taken care of. I remember the first time I didn't feel good enough or that I wasn't enough for my parents. When you grow up without feeling like you're good enough, you don't have a self-esteem. That's why I'm so concerned about the children in this world. We are giving children and parents who are already in bad situations, so many things that are toxic. For example, we are putting children on Ritalin when they're not sick. In other words, we're drugging them. We are putting them on this drug because their mothers have been abused and they are angry and we think the child has a bad attitude. We put him on Ritalin so he'll shut up. And the mother thinks it's good because the child is quiet. But we're not giving the mother or the child any love.\n\nMy first experience with drugs was when I was 15 years old. I was drinking too much, and I was also abusing the pills I was taking for my back. When I turned 16, I started using heroin. This was about the time that I met my husband, and he was already abusing heroin. I thought heroin would help me escape from reality, but it didn't. It just made me very ill and it made my relationship with my husband very difficult.\n\nI went to a methadone clinic because I had a lot of blood in my urine and I knew I had a bad infection. I went to the clinic because it was the only way I could get my hands on the pills I needed. I went to the clinic, and I did it to help myself. The clinic was the most humiliating thing I had ever done in my life. I had to be weighed and they put the scale on a little table that was at the bottom of the bed. They handed me a little yellow urine cup and put it on the same little table. And the nurses took my blood pressure. Then they weighed me and told me how much I weighed. And then they had me piss in the cup, and they put my piss on a little counter, and they put it on the same little table. When I went to pick up my pills, they weighed me and they took my blood pressure again. I was very upset by the whole thing, and I said to the nurse, "Look, I just did this to get pills. I know I need them, and I don't need you telling me I need them." I never went back to the clinic. I did all of that for me, but I couldn't do that to my child. I couldn't let him know that I had such low self-esteem that I felt that I was nothing. I couldn't tell my child that, because it wouldn't be fair. And I wouldn't be able to show him the love I felt I didn't have.\n\nThis organization - the Mother's to the Rescue - it's for the mother's who don't want to speak out against their husbands for fear of losing their children. I would like to see women reach out to these mothers who don't have a self-esteem and don't have a voice. I would like to see women offer these mothers a place to go for help. I would like to see them reach out and give these women the love they need and the love they want to give their children, and I would like to see them give their children the love they need and the love they want to give their children.\n\nI know I'm not a doctor, but I would like to see women stop giving their children so many drugs. There's so much poisoning our children today. Our children need our love, and they need to know that they're good enough. It's the love that's lacking. It's not going to be the mother's who are beaten by their husbands who are going to reach out to the battered woman and say, "It's okay. It's okay. Come over to my house and we'll get your child, and we'll love you and your child. We'll give you the love you need and the love you want." And it's not going to be the battered woman who is being beaten by her husband who is going to reach out and say, "It's okay. You're a good mother. Come over to my house, and we'll get your child, and we'll give him the love he needs and the love he wants." No. It's not going to be those women who are being beaten and raped that are going to reach out to the battered mother and say, "It's okay. We're here for you." No, it's not. It's going to be the woman who doesn't have a self-esteem and who feels like she's not good enough, that's who's going to reach out and give love to a battered mother and a battered child. And when women have a strong sense of self-esteem and know that they are good enough, they will reach out and give love to those women who need their love and those children who need their love.\n\nAnd maybe if the mother doesn't speak out against her husband, she'll still have a relationship with her child. She may have to sacrifice some of her dreams, but it's worth it. She'll have to sacrifice her self-esteem to save her child. The child's the most important thing. And if that means a mother has to give up her self-esteem, I think it's worth it. You have to love your child. You have to save your child. You have to do whatever it takes to save your child.\n\n(Words of Wisdom by Joan Didion)