Matt Foley\n\nMatthew James Foley is a character created by comedian Chris Farley, who played the character on "Saturday Night Live" from 1992 to 1995, as well as in two films. Foley is a motivational speaker with a long series of jokes about his alcoholic father, his lack of success with women, and his various unfortunate situations.\n\nThe character was first played by Chris Farley on "Saturday Night Live" in 1992, and again on "SNL" in 1994, 1995, and on the final episode of "Saturday Night Live" on May 15, 2000.\n\nThe character of Matt Foley made his debut on "Saturday Night Live" during the second season.\n\nHis most famous line is "Hi, I'm Matt Foley, and I'm gonna put my foot in your ass!". Other catch phrases include "No shit!" and "Yeah, that's the ticket!". He frequently refers to his recently deceased father, usually when he is discouraged about his job prospects.\n\nHe is the basis for the character of Al in the film "Tommy Boy". The movie "Tommy Boy" had started production in 1994, but was delayed after a poor test screening, so Farley reprised the character on "Saturday Night Live" for a series of sketches in the fall of 1994 in order to remind viewers of the character and raise awareness of the movie.\n\nIn 1995, Farley's sketches about Foley were released as a direct-to-video movie, "Matt Foley: You Can Do It". The character is featured in the 1999 video game "NFL Blitz 2000" as a secret character.\n\nIn 2010, Jason Zumwalt played the character in an advertisement for "Paramount Insurge", a company which has been described as "the new division that's looking for films that break out from the typical Hollywood studio fare."\n\nIn 2014, David Koechner portrayed Matt Foley on an episode of "Parks and Recreation". The character appears in "Tommy Boy" as well.\n\nMatt Foley's motivational career is the primary source of his income. In one of his sketches, he is told by his agent that his chances of success are "one in a million". Despite his lack of success, he refuses to change his tactics or mannerisms. His speeches are full of poor advice, misanthropic cynicism and just plain rude behavior. He also has a series of anecdotes about his family, most prominently his father, who was also a motivational speaker, but was even more unsuccessful than Matt.\n\nIn the film "Tommy Boy", Matt Foley was played by Chris Farley's former "Saturday Night Live" castmate, David Spade. Spade's character was named Al and was a truck driver instead of a motivational speaker.\n\nIn the short-lived animated television series "Drawn Together", a character named Toot Braunstein was based on Foley. Like Foley, Toot was depicted as a heavy drinker and womanizer, and even wore an outfit very similar to Foley's.\n