The Grand Marnier Orange Curacao Cocktail\n\nWhile I’ve made my rounds tasting the sweeter side of the Cocktail family, I thought it might be good to check out a cocktail with a bit more spice and kick to it. There’s nothing wrong with a sweeter cocktail, but for me it gets a bit redundant. Plus, there’s just as much of a history with some of these spicy cocktails as there are with the sweeter ones. While many of the sweeter cocktails have deep roots in the prohibition era, many of the spicy ones were popular during that time as well, but many of them had their origins before prohibition. The orange curacao cocktail in particular was first documented back in the late 1700’s. Let’s take a look at what the Grand Marnier Orange Curacao Cocktail has to offer.\n\nThe Cocktail\n\nWhat we have here is a very classic cocktail, consisting of only three ingredients. Grand Marnier is the main spirit, but we’ll be adding some orange curacao and some lime juice as well. A lot of citrus, but as we’ll see, it’s a strong cocktail. I’m just making this in a cocktail shaker, but I can see it also being a good shooter, or you could do it as a highball.\n\nThe Taste\n\nThis is a good drink. The orange curacao and the Grand Marnier are well balanced. I can’t say there’s a very dominant flavor to the drink, but that’s a good thing. It does have a very smooth, rich taste to it. The finish is nice and long, and leaves a nice aftertaste as well. Overall it’s a really nice cocktail, and I could definitely see myself enjoying this as an occasional drink.\n\nThe Verdict\n\nThe Grand Marnier Orange Curacao Cocktail is a nice cocktail, especially if you’re looking for a bit more kick to your drinks. It’s also a great cocktail if you’re looking for something a bit lighter. The orange curacao, Grand Marnier, and lime juice all work together nicely, and create a great tasting cocktail. It’s a bit on the strong side, so it’s not for everyone. I would say this is more of an occasional drink for me, but it’s one I’m glad I tried.\n\nCocktails are just a lot of fun to make, and this Grand Marnier Orange Curacao Cocktail is a great example of why. It’s a classic cocktail, it’s a bit spicy, and it’s got a great flavor to it. If you haven’t made cocktails before, this is definitely one you should try, and if you’re looking for a classic cocktail to make, this is a good choice.\n\n(Visited 96 time, 1 visit today)