Perhaps one of the most beautiful areas of Southern California is the Pacific Palisades, a neighborhood filled with high rises, luxury estates, and tons of culture. From the obvious to the under the radar, Pacific Palisades has some of the most fascinating museums, gardens, and activities you can visit. When you need to get out of the house and explore a new part of Los Angeles, the Pacific Palisades is a fantastic choice.\n\nThe Getty Villa\n\nThe Getty Villa is a sight to behold, and is a must see when you are in the Pacific Palisades. You are welcome to explore the museum for free on the first Thursday of every month. They offer a free trolley that will take you to the Getty Villa, so you don’t have to worry about navigating through the Pacific Palisades on a crowded day. This is the perfect time to visit the Pacific Palisades.\n\nThere are two events going on at the Getty Villa on Thursdays: Story Time and Pacific Voices. Story time will give you a better understanding of ancient Greek and Roman culture. It is a good idea to purchase your tickets in advance, so you can get a discount. The Pacific Voices event is a singing performance, and a great way to enjoy your time at the Getty Villa.\n\nSanta Monica Mountains National Recreation Area\n\nThe Santa Monica Mountains are a beautiful way to spend a day in the Pacific Palisades. The National Recreation Area has a fantastic number of trails you can explore, and is a great way to get out of the house and spend time with your family. Take the trail to Leo Carillo State Beach, or go for a hike along Rustic Canyon. Whichever trail you take, you are sure to enjoy your time in the Pacific Palisades.\n\nSanta Monica Baykeeper\n\nThe Santa Monica Baykeeper is a fantastic organization that works hard to clean up the Santa Monica Bay. This is a great way to spend time in the Pacific Palisades and make a real difference. Check their website for upcoming volunteer opportunities. You will learn more about the Santa Monica Bay, and get a chance to spend time with some interesting people.\n\nPacific Palisades Center for the Arts\n\nThe Pacific Palisades Center for the Arts is an excellent way to spend an afternoon. This isn’t a museum, so you don’t need to book in advance. It is free to walk around the grounds, and to watch a performance. They have everything from jazz concerts to visual arts. If you want to learn more about the Pacific Palisades, then this is a great place to start.\n\nPacific Palisades Farmers Market\n\nThe Pacific Palisades Farmers Market is an excellent way to spend your Saturday in the Pacific Palisades. From fruits and vegetables, to homemade items and baked goods, there are plenty of delicious items to choose from. This is a great place to bring the kids, as they have tons of activities.\n\nPacific Palisades Art Walk\n\nThe Pacific Palisades Art Walk is a fantastic opportunity to view some of the beautiful artwork created by locals. It is a fun evening filled with laughter and good food. You are welcome to bring your own picnic basket and enjoy it in the beautiful Pacific Palisades.