In three minutes and forty-four seconds, the short video clips the different stages of a woman’s life. As each new scene replaces the previous one, the viewer learns about the heroine: what is her relationship with her mother, what’s the story behind her scar, what happened to her husband. Then, the video ends with a gunshot that triggers a trauma.\n\nSix years ago, Anna Biller created her second feature film The Love Witch, that tells the story of Elaine, an irresistibly beautiful witch who takes advantage of her charms to seduce men, manipulate them, and drain them of their energies. This is a perfect example of the exploitation of the female body and the overuse of sex, an issue that deeply concerns the director of her next movie The Seven Wonders of a Woman, whose protagonists are also young, beautiful, and sexy women, and whose bodies and sex appeal are the key elements of a professional and financial success that is at the same time a personal failure.\n\nThe “sexual revolution” that Biller wanted to denounce in The Love Witch was partly caused by the Second Wave of Feminism. In her eyes, this revolution turned out to be hypocritical, as the current world of women, which is supposed to be emancipated and free, is often a sad place where women in positions of power and wealth can use their bodies to benefit themselves.\n\nThe Seven Wonders of a Woman centers on the story of Michelle (Jessica Ross), a 24-year-old girl who lives with her older sister Alexis (Andrea Fraser). Her life is in the hands of her sister, who is her manager and agent, her psychiatrist, and her trainer. In fact, Michelle’s appearance and her performances in the films she stars in are all carefully arranged by Alexis.\n\nIn a short sequence of a behind-the-scenes video that gives us a glimpse of Michelle’s work and life, we see how she is practically forced to walk, to stand, and to smile. She is a sex symbol that’s kept on a very tight leash. The way Biller is filming these scenes gives us an idea of how suffocated and imprisoned Michelle must feel, as well as how her life is entirely centered on her own body and beauty.\n\nIf The Love Witch is a feminist movie, The Seven Wonders of a Woman is a character study on a young woman who, because of the people around her, is losing her sense of self. However, it is not a criticism of women. Quite the contrary, Biller’s next movie is a celebration of the feminine.\n\nThe Seven Wonders of a Woman doesn’t only depict the damage that a society obsessed with female sexuality can cause. It also gives us the beautiful and strong portraits of the main character and her entourage. There is a world of women who make a career out of their bodies, and that’s why it is so important for Biller to show them not only as being beautiful and strong, but also as being human and fragile. In the midst of the montage of scenes with their limbs exposed and their faces sometimes filmed from below, there is also a short sequence that shows them running away from the camera. It’s as if they were trying to protect themselves from a prying eye.\n\n“The Seven Wonders of a Woman” will be released on May 31st at Anthology Film Archives in New York, and on July 27th at the Rialto Pictures Cinefamily"