"I’m back in Shoreditch and work starts again tomorrow so I’m trying to get things sorted before that. However, this was my second big trip of the year and I’m feeling a bit worn out. It feels like it was longer than a week though.\n\nI went to Seoul with Jess for two weeks. We flew to Seoul Incheon on Cathay Pacific and stayed at the Hyatt in Seoul Station, just outside the hotel station (it was actually our last day before we flew out). We visited the Han River and the Hongdae area (including bars, restaurants and music venues) and went to the Seoul Film Festival. We spent a lot of time walking around too as we don’t really know the city that well and were pretty tired by the end of each day.\n\nWe visited a temple near Cheongdam called Angukdaegyo which was beautiful. We also visited the grounds of the 63 Building which is quite close to the hotel. The following day, we went to Jogyesa Temple which is where the head of the Jogye Order of Korean Buddhism has his residence. We also went to Cheongwadae which is the residence of the President of Korea and the Blue House. I really wanted to go inside the Blue House but it was closed when we were there. The area around the Blue House was really beautiful.\n\nWe had a really nice lunch at the Daehangno area. We had a really nice lunch at the Dongmyo Station near Gyeongbokgung Palace. The area is quite nice. We then went to Insadong where there were lots of small shops. We also visited Namsangol Hanok Village and had a nice lunch at the Hanok Village. It was also near Gyeonghuigung. We walked up the hills near Gyeonghuigung, which were quite steep and also quite a nice walk. We also visited Seoul Tower which was lovely and there was a great view of Seoul.\n\nWe then travelled to Busan for a day to see the Ulsan Bijudong Cable Car and to take the ferry to Geoje Island. Busan was nice and I can definitely see why people live there. There was a great view of the coast from the cable car. There were quite a lot of islands in Geoje Island. We stayed in the Geoje Island Ferry Cruise which is a small hotel. It was very pleasant there and the food was good. We walked around the island and saw the Minho lighthouse. It was quite cloudy so we couldn’t see the islands around. We stayed for dinner and saw the sunset before we returned to Busan.\n\nOur next destination was Jeju Island. We flew from Busan to Jeju Island on a flight that took about 1 hour. There was also a harbour just outside the hotel. We stayed at the Full Moon Hotel. It was quite beautiful. We visited Hallasan Mountain and the Jeju Haenyeo Museum of Women’s Contributions to Life in the Jeju Island in which there was a lovely view of Hallasan Mountain. We also visited Samcheok Beach. We had a great dinner at the Full Moon Hotel in the Samcheok Bay. There was a beautiful view of the moon rising over the beach from our room.\n\nThe next day, we went to Seongsan Ilchulbong Peak, which was very beautiful. It is a volcanic crater on a small island that was completely formed from lava. It was cloudy and rainy while we were there. We went to Seogwipo and had a lovely lunch at Jin Jin Gop. We had a really nice seafood lunch and it was just a couple of minutes away from Seogwipo station. We went to the Seogwipo Lotte Shopping Center and bought some gifts.\n\nWe then went to Hallim Park. It was a very hot day but it was very pleasant there. We went on a cable car to Mount Baekhwa, which was really nice. It is the highest mountain on Jeju Island and the views were nice. We also went to Mokcheongyeon cave and we visited the memorial museum and the huge cave. The cave was really nice and it was a good experience. We then went to Jeju Olle Trail which is a series of pathways that cross Jeju Island. They have been designed to showcase the most beautiful spots on Jeju. We went to the Jeju Olle trail which was near the entrance of Hallim Park. The weather was really nice so it was pleasant to be outside.\n\nWe went to Seongsan Sunrise Peak which was a nice place to see the sunrise. There was a really nice sunset too. The weather was very nice and it was a pleasant place to be. We also went to Mt Sine, which was very pretty. It was a bit foggy and we couldn’t see Mt Halla but it was a nice walk. We also went to the 7 treasures of Jeju which was nice. We then went to Biyang-ri, Seogwipo, which was a bit more rural and very nice.\n\nOur last destination was the Jeju World Cup Stadium. It was a really nice stadium with lots of seating. It had lots of places to eat and drink too.\n\nWe then flew back to Seoul to fly home. It was a lovely place and I can definitely see why people would want to live there.