Source: https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/2017/02/03/ray-tracing-next-level-immersion/\n\nFebruary 3, 2017 – (NVIDIA) — Today’s GPUs are designed for solving massively parallel computationally intensive problems, with capabilities well suited to energy-efficient deep learning inferences and other highly compute-intensive AI tasks.\n\nHowever, there are many problems for which parallel processing is not the most suitable strategy, but for which highly programmable processors, including GPUs, are well suited. These include repetitive graphics rendering and compute-heavy simulation tasks.\n\nRay tracing is a traditional graphics rendering technique that uses programmable processors to simulate the physical behavior of light to render lifelike images. This has always been possible with GPUs but the technique has historically been too computationally intensive for real-time rendering. This is about to change.\n\nThe Pascal architecture is the first to support a feature called “ray-tracing acceleration,” which is fundamentally a programmable feature. And with that, our understanding of what’s possible in graphics has changed forever.\n\nWhile there are already highly efficient real-time ray tracing implementations that run on traditional GPUs, they are not programmable and therefore cannot be optimized. The Pascal architecture gives developers explicit control over rays and the ability to implement custom acceleration structures tailored to specific workloads, enabling a level of programmability never before possible.\n\nBecause of this programmability, we expect to see rapid innovation in this area. For example, the architecture makes it possible to accelerate the simulation of a virtual camera system and determine the behavior of a single light ray, enabling light and sound propagation and how they interact with surfaces.\n\nThis can lead to highly realistic computer graphics. For example, these new types of light simulations could let game developers create more realistic and lifelike lighting effects. This new level of realism can have a profound impact across the entertainment industry, from movies and television to games. And it’s not just about how a game or movie looks — it’s about how it sounds, too.\n\nRay-tracing acceleration could be used to create virtual environments that respond realistically to sound, making the overall experience far more lifelike. For example, ray-tracing acceleration could be used to implement real-time reflections of sound in a scene, creating the acoustic ambience of a room or concert hall.\n\nBecause of ray-tracing acceleration, it’s now possible to produce images and sounds that were not previously possible in real-time graphics. With the power of Pascal, developers can now build applications that can realistically render and simulate the physical behavior of light. We’re looking forward to the amazing graphics and audio experiences this is going to enable.\n\n© NVIDIA Corporation