"To the best of our knowledge, this study was the first to compare the accuracy of measuring BL and AL using different protocols and devices. In this study, a set of seven measurement protocols using five devices (ACCU-measure®, Biospace Vellamo, HarpScan®, i-FAST-BBL®, and the World Health Organization [WHO] body size measurement charts) were analyzed. Among these protocols, only the WHO protocol with the reference tape had a low correlation with the skin-fold method. The low correlation between the WHO protocol with the reference tape and the skin-fold method could be due to the measurement of the abdominal circumference with the tape which is done in supine position with the knees bent and the arms raised [28]. In contrast, the waist circumference is measured in the standing position with the arms extended along the body and with a goniometer, which may explain the low correlation. The reference tape may not be the appropriate measurement device for the abdominal circumference. Moreover, it is well known that abdominal circumference can change significantly in different postures and therefore measurement of the abdominal circumference by means of a tape will change in each posture [29]. The percentage of accuracy with the reference tape was the lowest among the devices used in this study (45.9%).\n\nWhen comparing the BL and AL measurements using the different protocols, the most accurate results were obtained with the protocols using the BL-4, BL-5, AL-5, and AL-6 (ACCU-measure®, Biospace Vellamo, HarpScan®, and WHO protocols, respectively) (Table 1). All the devices had a good correlation with the skin-fold method, except for the HarpScan® device with the protocol AL-1 (Table 2). The good correlation between the HarpScan® and the skin-fold method with the protocol AL-1 can be explained by the fact that both measurements are based on the measurements of the arm span. Therefore, this protocol should be considered as the easiest and most appropriate protocol to measure AL, although a reference tape should be used for all other protocols, as the correlation with the skin-fold method is excellent with this device (ACCU-measure® and Biospace Vellamo). The poor correlation between the HarpScan® device and the skin-fold method with the AL-1 protocol was also observed in a previous study [13]. The protocol AL-2 (arm span) could be considered as a better protocol for the HarpScan® device because the correlation with the skin-fold method is also good (r = 0.90). However, the correlation between the AL-2 protocol and the skin-fold method is also poor with the reference tape (r = 0.81). In a previous study, the AL-2 protocol was compared to the AL-3 protocol with the tape measure [11], but in this study, only AL-2 was compared to the skin-fold method, because AL-3 protocol is not an international standard, which could explain the lower correlation in the previous study. In the current study, AL-2 was also compared with the skin-fold method, but the correlation was lower than the correlation with the AL-3 protocol. Although a reference tape is used for this protocol, it may not be the best measurement device for measuring AL.\n\nThe World Health Organization protocol with the reference tape had the highest correlation with the skin-fold method (r = 0.97) and the best percentage of accuracy (92.2%). The correlation with the skin-fold method was also good with the Biospace Vellamo device (r = 0.91), but the device used to measure the height was not the same as the one used for the WHO protocol. The correlation between the reference tape and the AL-1 protocol was also high (r = 0.91). Therefore, the World Health Organization protocol is the best protocol to use in epidemiological studies with measurements of BL and AL. However, this protocol can be modified to improve its reliability, for example by using the head circumference, arm span, and the height instead of the arm span and the head circumference, respectively, to measure BL and AL. The WHO protocol has the potential to be recommended as an international standard because it is the simplest protocol to use, and it is easy to standardize and apply.\n\nRegarding the differences between males and females, there was a significant difference between the skin-fold method (male) and the WHO protocol (female) for AL. These results are in agreement with previous studies that found that the AL measurement between males and females is different [9, 11, 30, 31]. This difference in AL measurement between males and females can be explained by the differences in body size [9, 11, 30, 31], and it has been suggested that the differences in body size may be due to genetic factors [9]. The mean AL of males was 2.5 cm longer than that of females. In a study of school children, males had significantly greater AL than females [11], and this was also observed in an adult population [9].\n\nWhen comparing the measurements of the different protocols using the BL-5 protocol, the WHO protocol with the reference tape had the highest percentage of accuracy (96.9%) (Table 3). The lowest percentage of accuracy was obtained with the reference tape (87.9%) and the AL-1 protocol (87.1%). The lower percentage of accuracy with the reference tape and the AL-1 protocol is also found in a previous study [11]. The percentage of accuracy is influenced by the differences in height and weight, and the larger the differences between the height and weight of males and females, the lower the percentage of accuracy [9, 10, 12]. However, the percentage of accuracy obtained with the BL-5 protocol is the highest because the BL-5 protocol measures only body size, while the AL-1 protocol also measures arm span. Although the arm span is a better indicator of the body size, it is also influenced by factors such as body composition, and this may explain the lower percentage of accuracy obtained with the AL-1 protocol. In addition, the tape measures used in this study were used to measure height and weight, and this may have influenced the results because the length of the tapes was not standardized.\n\nThe correlation between the AL-1 protocol and the skin-fold method was poor with the Biospace Vellamo device (r = 0.68) (Table 2), whereas the correlation was good with the AL-2 protocol (r = 0.91). Therefore, in studies that use the Biospace Vellamo device to measure AL, the AL-2 protocol should be considered. The same protocol should also be considered for other devices, except for the HarpScan®, which is one of the few devices that can measure AL.\n\nThe use of different measurement devices for the measurement of body size has been studied by many authors, and the results are different. However, the AL measurement using a device that measures only the arm span has the best accuracy [7, 12, 13, 32]. Moreover, the results from these studies are different, and this may be due to differences in the populations studied [11], in the measurement protocols [9, 12, 13], and in the devices used to measure AL. In a study that compared the AL measurement by means of the same protocol with the same device (the reference tape), the results were similar to the results of the current study, and the best protocol was the World Health Organization protocol, which was based on the arm span and the height [9]. The highest correlation between the AL-2 protocol and the skin-fold method was obtained with the reference tape (r = 0.91) [11]. The best correlation was also obtained with the reference tape in the current study (r = 0.94). The results of the current study showed that the reference tape was the best device to use in the assessment of the accuracy of AL measurement by means of different protocols. The measurement of AL using the reference tape is not dependent on body size and may provide more reliable and accurate results [12]. The results of the current study may be useful for developing an international standard for AL measurement.