In her interview with Popnography, Kate Micucci discussed her two new projects, BoJack Horseman and another animated series on Yahoo! Screen called Other Space. Other Space will be an anthology comedy following the crew of the space shuttle Venturi 2, created by Paul Feig.\n\nOther Space will be the first show I do where the cast is mostly male. I’m a big feminist and I’m not sure how I feel about that, but my character, Natalie, is the only girl on the ship and the youngest, which makes her feel isolated from the rest of the crew. She’s shy and reserved. She’s a huge sci-fi nerd and very book smart but not street smart. She’s obsessed with books and fantasy but there are too many people on the ship and she has a hard time focusing.\n\nKate plays one of the main characters, Natalie, a woman with aspirations of space travel who works on the shuttle, Venturi 2. The series has been compared to an early 90s show called Space Cases, which also takes place on a space shuttle, however, it seems that Other Space will be a little bit more adult and will likely also delve into the science fiction genre as well as the comedy. Micucci will be joined by a great ensemble of actors including The Hunger Games actor, Sam Richardson, as Commander Glen. Richardson and Micucci previously worked together on Saturday Night Live, and Kate shared how much she loves working with him.\n\nI love working with Sam. He’s so wonderful. He’s so cute. I think my character Natalie really brings him out of his shell. She’s the only one who really has the courage to push him. I think she also brings out a really kind, sensitive side in him that he probably doesn’t have a lot of. It’s been a really lovely experience to get to work with him. He’s just a very warm, kind person.\n\nAlso joining the cast are Rebecca Romijn as the ambitious first officer, Kelly, and Enrico Colantoni as Captain Zalian. Other Space will be directed by Joe Russo and will be a half hour comedy show with ten episodes. The show is set to premiere on Yahoo! Screen on April 14, 2015.