"There are no spoilers in this review\n\nFrom the off, the third episode in the new Star Trek Discovery series has a slow pace. It is the most quiet of the three episodes and is more of a character study in the struggles faced by all of the Discovery crew and how that manifests in different ways. With that in mind, I find it strange that this is not getting the universal praise that the first two episodes were. But that’s the power of spoilers I suppose, no one knew what was coming in the first two episodes.\n\nThe episode itself, despite being more quiet than the first two, still manages to deliver plenty of story. You do have to take it with a grain of salt because some of the ‘bad guy’ stuff is almost unbelievably naive but that’s the Star Trek universe for you. Despite the low stakes, I was still hooked on every word and scene.\n\nThere are plenty of hints that we can be certain that there is a big bad out there that we have not seen yet. Perhaps that is what made the episode more interesting. There is something looming over them and we don’t know what it is yet.\n\nFor some reason, people seem to have a problem with the fact that the crew spend time getting to know one another, with only a couple of scenes of violence and action. Personally, I found that the social dynamics between the characters to be very interesting and engaging. Yes, this is probably true to life and does have some real life parallels. I am glad they did not waste time with all of that mindless action that I’ve become so accustomed to.\n\nThere are no huge shocks in this episode and the pay offs to the mini story arcs were a bit weak. But when the pay off came, I was still glad that they took the time to introduce us to the characters in this way.\n\nIf you have been put off watching Star Trek Discovery because of the fear of spoilers, then I would suggest you don’t worry too much and go ahead and start the show. If you can manage to resist the temptation of the spoilers for the next two weeks, then I think you will be very happy with the third episode and the direction the show is heading in.\n\nLet us know what you thought of the episode in the comments below and if you have seen the first two episodes.