The framework and development of the US Regulatory Enforcement Model\n\nAbstract\n\nRegulatory Enforcement Policy is the application of rules and regulations in a business or industry to regulate the conduct of the firm and individuals or businesses involved in the business. The enforcement policies and their extent determine the effectiveness of regulatory system. This paper evaluates the current framework of US Regulatory Enforcement Policy and the legislative proposals that have been made in the US to improve regulatory enforcement in the US. The paper also evaluates the existing US regulatory enforcement model, its success and failure, and analyzes the shortcomings and areas for improvement.\n\nKeywords\n\nExecutive summary\n\nRegulatory enforcement policy is the use of rules and regulations in an industry to regulate the conduct of the firms and individuals or businesses involved in the business. The enforcement policies and their extent determine the effectiveness of regulatory system. In an industry, the main objective of any firm is to produce more, better and faster in order to increase its profit. But there are some limits that are imposed by the government to control the output of the industry and to promote the social welfare of the society. For instance, in case of water industries, it is required that industries need to comply with certain environmental norms in order to maintain the balance of the ecosystem. These norms are determined by the government for controlling the quantity of water produced by the industry.\n\nHowever, in spite of setting the environmental norms, the government has to control the output to promote the interests of the consumers and public welfare. As a result, the government needs to enforce these rules and regulations to control the conduct of firms and individual to promote the overall public welfare. The enforcement of rules and regulations will promote the public welfare as firms will produce as per the norms set by the government. It is because of this reason that the"