hondacivic93\n\nSwamp Butt\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLook out kid, they keep it all hid\n\nJoined: January 2012\n\nPosts: 120\n\nSwamp Butt\n\nAnyone else have an old fart for a roommate? Quote Select Post\n\nSelect Post Deselect Post\n\nDeselect Post Link to Post\n\nLink to Post Member Give Gift\n\nMember Back to Top Post by hondacivic93 on oooolost said: Jazzy Haggis said:\n\nI also think that maybe it's just a bunch of kids in their late teens and early 20s that are acting like jerks and trying to act like they are younger than they are. I don't have anything against anyone at Bonnaroo or in their 20s but just because you are in your 20s doesn't mean you should be acting like a college freshman. I will be 21 in June and I can't stand how a lot of people in their early 20s act. I have no problem with anyone who is in their late teens and 20s who are cool and have a good time but some of these kids in their early 20s are out of control.\n\n^^ This. My roommate is 19 and his friends are 21-23, so I see this kind of behavior from time to time. I'm 22, so I remember my freshman year, but I try not to act like an idiot even if I'm getting drunk, and I definitely would never be rude to someone just because they didn't know how to do something.\n\n\n\nI'm definitely biased because I can't stand anyone who acts like a rude jerk, but I would honestly think twice before I let my friends stay in a shelter or sleeping under the stars if I'm 18 or 19. I know I was in college and some of my friends had to, but I think there is an understanding that you aren't supposed to do that. I don't know why someone would do that if they could afford something else. ^^ This. My roommate is 19 and his friends are 21-23, so I see this kind of behavior from time to time. I'm 22, so I remember my freshman year, but I try not to act like an idiot even if I'm getting drunk, and I definitely would never be rude to someone just because they didn't know how to do something.I'm definitely biased because I can't stand anyone who acts like a rude jerk, but I would honestly think twice before I let my friends stay in a shelter or sleeping under the stars if I'm 18 or 19. I know I was in college and some of my friends had to, but I think there is an understanding that you aren't supposed to do that. I don't know why someone would do that if they could afford something else.\n\n\n\nI agree with this. I'm the oldest one out of my group of friends (other than one of my friends girlfriend) and we all talk about how its almost as if college aged kids are turning into these immature adults. I'm 19 and I'm trying to make as many decisions for the group of us as possible because I can't stand hearing the complaints and the snarky attitude from people who don't know any better. Even though I'm the one who spends the most money, I do it because I enjoy the festival more than they do. I love getting drunk but at the same time I like having an air mattress to sleep on. I'm just trying to keep my friends out of the hardcore tents and all the arguments that come with it. When I got there last year I slept on the ground and I ended up in the hospital because my friends thought I was joking when I said my stomach hurt. This year I'm not going to risk it, I already have enough to worry about.\n\n\n\nMy biggest pet peeve is people that act like they are better than everyone else because they are younger. I was up there last year because I knew I wanted to have the best time possible, and because I know that I don't have a ton of time left to be there I can't stand it when people act like it doesn't matter to them. It makes me cringe when I hear someone in the tent next to me saying that its a waste of time and money and that they should have been out doing something else. Theres something about being in the middle of the field when night falls and hearing nothing but the music and the people around you that makes me never want to leave.\n\n\n\nI think that is part of the problem with the younger generation. They get bored very easily and don't know what they have. I agree with this. I'm the oldest one out of my group of friends (other than one of my friends girlfriend) and we all talk about how its almost as if college aged kids are turning into these immature adults. I'm 19 and I'm trying to make as many decisions for the group of us as possible because I can't stand hearing the complaints and the snarky attitude from people who don't know any better. Even though I'm the one who spends the most money, I do it because I enjoy the festival more than they do. I love getting drunk but at the same time I like having an air mattress to sleep on. I'm just trying to keep my friends out of the hardcore tents and all the arguments that come with it. When I got there last year I slept on the ground and I ended up in the hospital because my friends thought I was joking when I said my stomach hurt. This year I'm not going to risk it, I already have enough to worry about.My biggest pet peeve is people that act like they are better than everyone else because they are younger. I was up there last year because I knew I wanted to have the best time possible, and because I know that I don't have a ton of time left to be there I can't stand it when people act like it doesn't matter to them. It makes me cringe when I hear someone in the tent next to me saying that its a waste of time and money and that they should have been out doing something else. Theres something about being in the middle of the field when night falls and hearing nothing but the music and the people around you that makes me never want to leave.I think that is part of the problem with the younger generation. They get bored very easily and don't know what they have.