Algyrosaurus\n\nAlgyrosaurus is a genus of tritylodontoid cynodonts. The type species "A. kokartei" is from the Upper Triassic (Norian stage) of eastern Austria, and was named in 2000.\n\n"Algyrosaurus" is known from an almost complete postcranial skeleton and from partial skulls. Its body was long. It was a small animal and, as a typical tritylodont, "Algyrosaurus" had reduced postcanines and a strongly reduced skull.\n\n"Algyrosaurus" was described in 2000 on the basis of specimen no. HG 199/75, a skeleton lacking the skull but otherwise almost complete. Additional specimens were named in 2004 and 2007, including a partial skull and specimen EHN 1869.\n\nAs the specimen HG 199/75 was lost, only its redescription remains. It can be distinguished from its close relative "Dvinia", which it is more similar to, by its relatively larger size, more robust vertebrae, more sloping ilium, and more pointed humerus. The type species "A. kokartei" was named after the collector of the holotype, Serguey Kokartsev.\n\nThe holotype of "Algyrosaurus kokartei" was found in a locality near Aich, which is part of the Austrian Triassic Basin, and is dated to the Norian stage, about 210 million years ago. "Algyrosaurus" was found in deposits that represent an island habitat, most likely a coastal area with shallow, calcareous lagoons. Its distribution probably was limited to this area.\n\nSeveral specimens, mostly partial skeletons, were found in Kazakhstan during the 1970s and 1980s in the Dzhanbulak Basin, which is part of the Kazakhstan depression. The locality was dated to the late Norian or Rhaetian stages of the Late Triassic. Among the material were vertebrae, ribs, partial limbs, and a skull. Two specimens, a postcranial skeleton and the skull, were in 2006 referred to "Algyrosaurus". The specimens were described as "Algyrosaurus" cf. "kokartei". They can be distinguished from the Austrian specimens by a wider pelvic girdle and the overall proportions of the body.\n\n"Algyrosaurus" is a tritylodont, one of the best known members of this group of herbivorous cynodonts. Tritylodonts first appeared during the Carnian and diversified during the Norian, becoming extinct at the end of the Rhaetian stage of the Triassic. Most tritylodonts were rather small animals, with a length of around . "Algyrosaurus" was a member of the subfamily Tritylodontinae, which includes genera such as "Tritylodon" and "Dvinia".\n\n"Algyrosaurus" shares a number of synapomorphies with "Dvinia", which indicates that the two genera form a clade. Among these synapomorphies are a convex top of the dentary bone, a concave back margin, and a narrower symphysis. This clade, the subfamily Dviniinae, is defined as all tritylodonts closer to "Dvinia" than to "Tritylodon". The cladogram below shows the phylogenetic relationships of "Algyrosaurus" from Müller "et al." (2011):\n\nSpecimen EHN 1869 was found with the skull of a juvenile specimen, specimen EHN 1870, which was found inside it. The two animals were preserved in sandstone, possibly brought there by a flood event. The specimen was described in 2007. The upper part of the skull is damaged but the lower jaw is intact and includes a postcanine. Specimen EHN 1869 is therefore a juvenile, with a skull only long, and shows that "Algyrosaurus" has a high growth rate.\n