"Maybe you have heard about HOMESTEAD, Florida, but you may not have visited. Located about 20 minutes south of Miami, this city is most famous for the Homestead Air Force Base. However, after the Base was shut down in the early 1990’s, the city has been diversifying its economy. It now has the world’s largest garbage transfer station, a Walmart, and a Whole Foods Market.\n\nIt’s the home of South Florida Raceway, an outstanding place to take a few rides on a motorcycle. A friend of mine and I made the three hour trip from West Palm Beach, and we were not disappointed. The track was built in 1968 and designed for high speed. It has a 14 foot banked turn and numerous skid pads to practice your sport riding skills. We spent a couple of hours with our motorcycles in the corners. It was a blast!\n\nTo learn more about the track, go to South Florida Raceway.\n\nJust north of the raceway is the town of Sweetwater. This is where you can enjoy some of the best live music in South Florida. Sweetwater is a small city and most of the businesses have closed. I did notice a few bars and a motorcycle shop, but other than that, it’s pretty much a ghost town. However, if you love music, this is the place to be.\n\nOnce a month, you can see up to 20 bands at The Stage. They have six different music genres from rock, country, R & B, punk, reggae, and classic rock. On April 29, 2018, there was a great lineup that included Southern Avenue, Kyle Park, and Third Eye Blind.\n\nTo learn more about The Stage, go to Sweetwater.\n\nAbout 30 miles south of Homestead is South Beach. This is one of the most visited locations in the country, but it is hard to find a nice affordable hotel. The Hyatt is nice but I could only find two rooms available at the time of our visit. If you can’t get a room there, you might try to find a room on the ocean side of the Intracoastal Waterway. At the time of my visit, the average price for a room was $475.\n\nIt is very difficult to find a good meal for a good price. We stopped at the Stache Gastropub. We really liked this place, but the prices are high. For two dinners, two drinks, and two desserts, we paid $135. I thought it was a bit too much, but I have a wife who is a vegetarian. I don’t know how many vegetarian meals I can get her.\n\nIf you don’t mind spending more, my wife told me about a restaurant called Oasis. It was a great place and they even had a vegetarian menu. The food was excellent.\n\nTo learn more about South Beach, go to Visit Miami Beach.\n\nWe were in Miami for three days and we did a lot of sightseeing. If you would like to see the pictures, go to Pictures of Miami.\n\nIf you have never been to Miami, you are missing out on one of the great cities in the country. If you have been to Miami, you know that there is a lot to do there. If you are going to be in the Miami area, be sure to stop at Homestead and visit the music festival. You can even take a day trip to South Beach.\n\nRemember, the nice people you meet along the way make the journey so much more enjoyable.