In these reports, we have presented new data and evaluated and reinterpreted data from previous studies to identify a common pathway by which calcium dysregulation leads to increased risk of disease. Two data sources we present here are as follows.\n\nWe have shown the strong association between cardiovascular and other diseases and calcium dysregulation in the United States in both men and women by estimating the prevalence of hypertension and calcium dysregulation based on a large and well-defined population of middle-aged adults. Our finding that the prevalence of calcium dysregulation, i.e., a positive response to one or more questions, was 4.1% in men and 4.3% in women was comparable to a number of other previous studies. We reported for the first time that age, race, and disease all modified the association between hypertension and calcium dysregulation.\n\nAnother novel finding in this study was that calcium dysregulation was not associated with increased mortality in middle-aged men but was associated with increased mortality in middle-aged women. The former finding suggests that the adverse health effects of hypertension and calcium dysregulation are equivalent in men and women and therefore the differences in the prevalence of these factors by sex should be considered when evaluating the associations of hypertension and calcium dysregulation with disease. The latter finding, i.e., increased mortality in women with calcium dysregulation, has been shown in prior studies [3, 4, 15, 29, 30].\n\nThe observed associations of calcium dysregulation with hypertension, diabetes, and heart disease are the same in men and women, and the associations with stroke, coronary artery disease, and kidney disease are equivalent. This suggests that the mechanisms by which these associations occur in men and women are similar. This would be expected because the calcium levels in blood are, to a large extent, regulated in a similar way in both men and women, i.e., by calcium binding proteins [20]. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that the associations are different in men and women because they may be due to different distributions of risk factors in men and women or because they may reflect different amounts of disease in the two sexes. For example, the correlation between calcium dysregulation and hypertension, diabetes, and coronary artery disease may be different in men and women because the disease prevalence is different. Also, the amount of calcium dysregulation may be different in men and women, for example, because of differences in serum calcium levels. It would be important to further study the relationship between calcium dysregulation and various diseases in men and women to confirm our finding.\n\nThe association between calcium dysregulation and mortality was stronger in men with hypertension than in men without hypertension, although the associations were similar in men with and without hypertension in women. The reason for this is unknown. However, these findings are consistent with previous findings that the association between hypertension and mortality is stronger in men than in women [31, 32, 33]. We also found that calcium dysregulation was associated with increased mortality in middle-aged women but not in middle-aged men. This is consistent with the findings of a previous report that the association between calcium dysregulation and mortality is stronger in middle-aged women than in middle-aged men [34]. This could be due to the fact that a stronger association between calcium dysregulation and mortality in middle-aged women is due to a stronger association between calcium dysregulation and hypertension in middle-aged women than in men. Also, the stronger association between calcium dysregulation and mortality in middle-aged women than in middle-aged men could be due to a stronger association between calcium dysregulation and mortality in women who are at an advanced age, especially when hypertension has already developed.\n\nBecause calcium dysregulation was associated with increased mortality in women, we evaluated the possibility that the association between calcium dysregulation and mortality was due to undiagnosed hypertension or hyperglycemia. In fact, we did"