The question of what causes psychopathy and other antisocial personality disorders (ASPD) is a matter of continued interest. ASPD may arise from many of the same factors that cause schizophrenia. However, unlike schizophrenia, ASPD is not a syndrome with a clear biological etiology. Rather, it is a syndrome that represents a mix of diverse etiologies. In addition, the genetic influence on ASPD is modest. Despite its heterogeneous etiologies and genetic risks, ASPD does have a clear neuropathology. Studies have shown that individuals with ASPD have abnormalities in brain regions that control emotion and impulsivity, such as the amygdala and the orbitofrontal cortex. These two brain regions appear to have developed abnormally in individuals with ASPD, resulting in the pathology of the disorder.\n\nPsychopathology\n\nPsychopathology refers to any of the various psychological or behavioral disorders that affect a person's cognition, emotions, or behavior. The DSM-IV describes several types of personality disorders that, according to this taxonomy, are based on the person's affect, interpersonal functioning, and impulse control. Psychopathology includes, but is not limited to, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, dissociative disorders, somatoform disorders, and thought disorders.\n\nClinical psychology refers to the study of psychopathology, personality, and social and abnormal psychology. Clinical psychologists evaluate, diagnose, and treat psychological problems. Clinical psychologists work with patients with a wide range of psychopathology, such as:\n\nEtiology\n\nAccording to research from psychologists at Washington University in St. Louis, children as young as age 2 who display symptoms of aggression, such as throwing temper tantrums or hitting others, are at increased risk of developing antisocial behavior and even psychopathology. In addition, the study found that children who display antisocial behavior at age 8 are also more likely to develop a substance abuse problem.\n\nA study of adult male prisoners by Harvard University researchers found that psychopathy is not an unusual or rare condition, but rather is very common, occurring in perhaps 15 percent of the population. One psychopathic characteristic, in particular, was found to be related to psychopathic behavior: impulsivity. When researchers investigated the neuroanatomical regions and specific brain structures related to the psychopathic characteristic of impulsivity, they discovered that the structures that were the most linked to this characteristic are the ones that have also been implicated in cocaine addiction. The researchers suggested that these findings might provide clues about the nature of impulsivity and the nature of psychopathy, in general.\n\nThe cause of antisocial personality disorder and psychopathy is largely unknown, but research indicates that it is caused by a complex interaction of factors. Environmental factors appear to play a role in the development of ASPD, but no specific psychosocial or environmental risk factors have been identified. Environmental influences may include certain parenting practices, abuse, and neglect, but these influences have not been confirmed.\n\nAn association between ASPD and low levels of monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) has been reported. Researchers believe that low levels of MAO-A, which is an enzyme that helps to regulate the levels of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine, may cause high levels of neurotransmitters. High levels of neurotransmitters have been implicated in certain forms of impulsive behavior.\n\nA study by Cambridge University researchers reported that certain genes are linked to antisocial behavior. The researchers studied over 1,000 males in New Zealand who were adopted as infants and found that they were five times more likely to display antisocial behavior than were the other males in the study. The researchers also found that antisocial behavior was linked to specific versions of the MAOA and the serotonin transporter 5-HTTLPR genes.\n\nGenetic factors may also be implicated in ASPD. Researchers at the National Institutes of Health reported that children who are genetically related to an individual with ASPD are at a higher risk of also developing the disorder. In this study, children with an affected sibling or parent were six times more likely to display antisocial behavior than were children with no affected family members.\n\nAdditionally, a family history of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, major depression, and bipolar disorder, may increase the risk of ASPD.\n\nStudies have also suggested that ASPD is more prevalent in males than in females. However, not all studies have confirmed this gender difference.\n\nASPD is associated with abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex, the amygdala, and the anterior cingulate cortex. These regions appear to be structurally and functionally abnormal in individuals with ASPD, particularly in individuals with psychopathy. Studies have also suggested that the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex play a role in regulating the brain regions that are linked to emotional and behavioral control.\n\nAnxiety disorders also seem to be highly comorbid with ASPD. People with ASPD are at increased risk of developing an anxiety disorder, and vice versa. Research has suggested that this comorbidity may be related to impulsivity. Studies have shown that people with ASPD are more impulsive than are people without ASPD. These studies suggest that the more impulsive a person is, the more likely he or she is to display the symptoms of an anxiety disorder.\n\nEpidemiology\n\nASPD is a relatively common disorder, affecting an estimated 1.6 percent of men and 0.8 percent of women in the United States. It is more common in males than in females. ASPD is typically diagnosed during adulthood, and most individuals with ASPD develop the disorder by age 18. However, the disorder can develop at any age, even in childhood.\n\nASPD may be diagnosed more frequently in certain countries, such as the United States, and less frequently in other countries. For example, researchers have reported that the prevalence of ASPD is significantly higher in the United States than in the United Kingdom.\n\nHistory\n\nThe term antisocial personality disorder was coined in 1908 by the American psychiatrist George E. Partridge. Partridge described antisocial personality disorder as a "predisposition to evil." He believed that antisocial personality disorder was a disorder of heredity and was therefore considered to be incurable.\n\nIn 1941, American psychiatrist Hervey Cleckley provided the first full clinical description of antisocial personality disorder in his book The Mask of Sanity. Cleckley described ASPD as "the behavior disorder of adult life" that was characterized by "greed for the esteem of others and the envy and resentment of those thought to possess more." Cleckley viewed ASPD as a disorder of personality and believed that it was incurable.\n\nTreatments\n\nThe treatments available for ASPD are different from those used for anxiety disorders and schizophrenia. This is due to the different pathologies of ASPD and these other disorders.\n\nBecause the cause of ASPD is not well understood, researchers have not developed treatments specifically targeted at the pathology of the disorder. However, various forms of psychotherapy have been found to be effective in treating ASPD. These psychotherapies, such as cognitive behavioral therapy and dialectical behavior therapy, focus on addressing the core symptoms of ASPD.\n\nIn addition, certain types of medication, such as mood stabilizers and antipsychotic medications, may be effective in treating the symptoms of ASPD.\n\nQuestions for Further Thought\n\nSome researchers have suggested that ASPD should be treated as a neurodevelopmental disorder, such as ADHD, rather than as a personality disorder. What is your opinion about this idea? Do you believe that ASPD is a disorder of the brain and, therefore, should be considered a neurodevelopmental disorder?\n\nReferences:\n\nAlbuquerque, E. X., Maciel, M. C., & Medeiros, M. A. (2007). Psychopathy and Personality Traits in a Sample of Psychiatric Inpatients. Psychiatry Research, 151(3), 273-279. doi:10.1016/j.psychres.2006.08.021 Barbaree, H. E., & Hudson, S. M. (1994). The prevalence of psychopathy among male sexual offenders. Law and Human Behavior, 18(5), 463-481. doi:10.1007/BF01531612 Canli, T., & Amin, Z. (2004). The role of gender and personality in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of emotion. Biological Psychiatry, 56(3), 205-213. doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2003.12.018 Ferguson, C. J., & Frick, P. J. (2010). Developmental pathways to conduct disorder and delinquency: Common and specific influences. Child Development Perspectives, 4(2), 98-103. doi:10.1111/j.1750-8606.2010.00166.x Farrington, D. P. (1991). The antecedents of criminal behavior. Crime and Justice: An Annual Review of Research, 12, 1-37. doi:10.1177/001112879101200101 Federal Bureau of Investigation. (2006). Crime in the United States. Federal Bureau of Investigation. Federal Bureau of Investigation. (2007). Crime in the United States. Federal Bureau of Investigation. Gilbreath, S. (2014, January 29). New research shows childhood aggression linked to later problems. Medical News Today. Retrieved from http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/releases/259646.php Krueger, R. F., Caspi, A., Moffitt, T. E., & Silva, P. A. (1998). Low self-esteem, not antisocial behavior, predicts depression. Psychological Science, 9(5), 416-422. doi:10.1111/1467-9280.00085 Kuyken, W., Padesky, C., Dudley, R., & Watkins, E. (1999). Cognitive therapy