Sometimes things don’t work out as planned. Take my 2010 travel plans, for example. I thought I was going to spend the whole year in one place. Instead, I had five different apartments in three different countries in four different months. My road trip from Florida to Illinois and back, was a homecoming I hadn’t anticipated. I thought I’d be able to spend a month back home, and then hit the road again with my friend Peter. He didn’t move on like I did, and for that, I was sorry. But for the first time, I had friends in my old home town, so I made the most of it. This post will be short and sweet, as it was all about the people. I have plenty of postcards of landscapes and monuments to give you if you want to see those. This one is just for you.\n\nFor those of you I was able to see in my whirlwind tour, this post is for you.\n\nMeeting up with my old friend Sarah in Tennessee. She is a treasure. A memory I’ll never forget. (And a great dresser)\n\nMy first night in Memphis, I met an old friend from high school. His name was Jeremy and he was a character. He gave me a place to stay, and on our way to his home he gave me a gift. He’d gotten it at the World’s Fair in Tennessee and couldn’t bear to throw it out.\n\nWhen we got to his house, it turned out to be his apartment complex. He wasn’t kidding when he said “come to my place”. He did have a bed and room for me, but I did my own cooking and dishes. I was still his guest. I thought about taking his offer, but he had work the next day and I wanted to hang out with him. We went to the only gay bar in Memphis.\n\nI’d been to Nashville before, but not Memphis. I loved it. The sounds of the night- the crickets and the doves- the humidity, the light drizzle of rain- it was everything I’d remembered, but with a twist. I’d never been to the east side of the city before, so I loved my first sight of the river and the bridges. I loved the old brick buildings and the old neighborhoods. It’s a great city, and it’s only 90 minutes from my parents’ house. I love that.\n\nI spent a lot of time with Peter while I was home. We spent a lot of time visiting parks, cemeteries, and battlefields. My favorite of those three is Cumberland Falls State Park. We spent an entire afternoon hiking. It was amazing. The weather was perfect, the water was perfect, and the views were perfect. It was like heaven.\n\nWe went for a road trip, but first we had to make a stop at my old hometown. I took him by my old house, my old church, and all of my old haunts.\n\nAnd then we went to the Nascar race. I loved the live music. I loved the atmosphere. I loved the people, but most of all, I loved the weather. It was just like that old song. It was a beautiful day.\n\nAnd we spent our last day at the beach. I had never been to the Gulf of Mexico before, so I was in heaven. It was perfect.\n\nAdvertisements