Separate ways: Dean Mumm and Sean McMahon of the Wallabies. Photo: Getty Images "I think there is a degree of that [tribalism] there, but at the end of the day we're representing our country," Mumm said. "There's obviously that type of animosity [between NSW and Queensland] that is probably more of a NSW-based thing and it is what it is. There's nothing really that we can do about that. We've got to play for our country and represent our country. "Everyone is out there putting their bodies on the line and doing the best they can for their team and I think at the end of the day you're either in the gold jersey or you're in the maroon. It's going to be interesting." The hard men of the recent series – Reds prop James Slipper and Rebels hooker James Hanson – will both be in action. A pack featuring Kane Douglas and Kane Barret, who were at each other's throats a fortnight ago in the Brumbies-Rebels match, also takes the field.\n\nA tussle: Nick Phipps of the Rebels and Dan Palmer of the Waratahs. Photo: Getty Images Both teams are missing several top players. Queensland have lost six Wallabies in the build-up to the match and the Rebels will be without six internationals. With coach Rob Moore using their depth of young talent and resting Wallabies skipper James Horwill and fly half James O'Connor, the Rebels might be a little overwhelmed. When the teams were named on Thursday, Rebels coach Damien Hill declared his side would "go out and express ourselves in our normal way" against a team they consider their bogey team. Rebels five-eighth Kurtley Beale will play his first match since suffering a fractured eye socket against the Blues in July. He said the Waratahs had been the "perfect" preparation for a tough match.\n\n"Especially the last couple of weeks," Beale said. "Obviously there's a bit of a rivalry going on. It's going to be a tough game. We've been focusing on ourselves the whole year, building that sort of self-belief and just worry about the way we want to play. "We're a good team in that sense. Obviously if we get that part of the game right, we can put on a performance." Beale said he did not know if his eye would be an issue but he was looking forward to testing it in a game. If he did find it tough, he would ask coach Hill to take him off. He said he had not taken the precaution of having a special protective visor made.\n\n"I think I've got a couple of old ones but they're pretty heavy," he said. "I can't see through them as well. I might have a look at that." The match will be a sell-out. At AAMI Stadium on Friday night, Hill expects to name an unchanged starting line-up, with young fly half Jack Debreczeni to earn his first start of the year. Debreczeni played half a game in the Shute Shield earlier this year but this will be his first Super Rugby start. The 20-year-old, who is from Adelaide, is one of four players who will make their starting debut, along with fullback Reece Hodge, loose forward Dan Palmer and prop Toby Smith. Hill said that because of the four debutants, there would be "a fair bit of nervous energy" but he had been pleased by the calmness of the squad and the quality of training. He said the Rebels' depth was starting to show and there was a good mix of youth and experience in the team.