Concert Reviews\n\nJUNGLE By ANNIE REILLY WRIGHT EAGLE-TRIBUNE, SEPT. 20, 2003\n\n\n\nSince the band's formation in 1991, Jungle have shown remarkable staying power in the music world. Despite having only one member who was a founding member, the band has endured more than a decade of ups and downs. One constant, however, has remained constant, the ever-changing sound of the band.\n\nIf the band has come off as experimental in the past, with a string of impressive releases that took chances and were often a mixture of rock and hip-hop, "Mecca" is even more experimental than anything the band has done to date. Their latest release is the most genre-bending of their career. It is a musical mecca.\n\nThe record opens with the poppy, upbeat "Ocean of Fantasy." The guitar in this song is very prominent, and although the rest of the band is still there, it almost feels like the guitar is the dominant force in the song. The verse also is reminiscent of something from the songbook of The Police. The song has a great, laid back feel and flows effortlessly from beginning to end.\n\nAfter the poppy nature of the opener, "Fairy Tales" starts off with a sound reminiscent of punk or hardcore bands, but with an almost pop-like feel. The song changes gears as it progresses, and the energy level picks up significantly. The sound is more raw and straightforward than the previous track. The chorus is probably the most noteworthy part of the song. "She's in love, she's in love with me/ She loves my eyes, my name, she loves my house" are the lyrics in the chorus that perfectly portray the point of the song.\n\nThe fourth track, "Princes," has a very Caribbean sound, and the sound is even reflected in the song's name. The sound is unlike anything on the rest of the album. This is the track that really reflects the experimentation of the band. The sound is very unlike anything the band has done, and the vibe is very different than anything in the other songs on the record. The vocals are reminiscent of Jamaican artists, and there is an extremely rhythmic feel to the track.\n\n"Respect" is the second song to break the two-minute mark, and it also is the second straight song on the record to sound like a band from the past. The music is hard-hitting, the chorus is fast and catchy, and the sound is very reminiscent of grunge music. The song is definitely a musical journey, and in a very good way.\n\nAnother standout track is "Mecca." The song starts off with a strong bass line that sounds like it could have been ripped right out of a rock-and-roll song of the 1950s or 1960s. The verse has a bit of a throwback sound to it, and the vocals are reminiscent of The Beach Boys. There are a few different musical segments in the song that come together to create a strong, memorable song. "Cookie Monster" is the final track on the album, and the vibe of the song is similar to a lot of music from the 1980s. The song is probably the most guitar-driven track on the record, but the band does a good job of putting together a song that is enjoyable. The track is definitely a highlight on the album.\n\nThe album is an excellent addition to Jungle's already impressive career. The band shows on this album that they are still willing to take chances and create a sound that is totally different than anything they have done to date. The album is an eclectic mix of music that is a perfect complement to the band's diverse musical style. The music on the record is fun, upbeat, experimental and shows the musicians in the band are willing to experiment in the studio. The record is a refreshing change of pace for the band, and the songs show that Jungle is ready to move forward and create a sound of their own.\n\nContact AnniemReilly@aol.com\n\n\n\n