In today’s digital age, many people look to the internet to learn about and purchase products. These include retail shoppers who look to Amazon for new toys or appliances, travelers who look to Expedia for airline tickets, and even patients who look to the internet to learn about a disease or find a doctor. This presents unique challenges for brand owners. While brand owners can claim ownership of certain content on their sites and apps, much of the internet is controlled by other entities. This includes social media sites, search engines, content syndicators, content aggregators, and other web sites. A brand owner who does not protect its name and trademarks on these sites risks losing control of its brand online.\n\nIn the past, brand owners who found a third-party using its trademarks or similar trademarks had to prove that the third-party was using the mark in a confusing manner. This required proving that the third-party’s use of the mark was likely to cause confusion in the mind of the average consumer, i.e. that it was likely to be mistaken for the mark of the brand owner. Today, however, that burden of proof is no longer necessary.\n\nA little over one year ago, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decided the landmark case of Global-Tech v. eBay, 562 F.3d 982 (9th Cir. 2009). The Global-Tech decision held that a plaintiff can bring a claim against a third-party for cybersquatting by using the new procedures set forth in the Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act of 1999 (“ACPA”). Previously, under the ACPA, a brand owner had to prove confusion to make a cybersquatting claim. Under the new regime, the burden has been placed on the third-party to show that its use of a domain name is legitimate.\n\nThe burden shift was the most significant change in the Global-Tech case. Before Global-Tech, a cybersquatting plaintiff had to prove confusion. After Global-Tech, a cybersquatting plaintiff only needs to prove that a defendant has registered a domain name similar to the plaintiff’s mark with bad faith intent to profit.\n\nAccording to the Ninth Circuit, “the ACPA’s [bad faith] requirement means little more than that a domain name registrant must intend to profit from the goodwill associated with the plaintiff’s mark.”\n\nOnce a cybersquatting plaintiff has proven this intent, a plaintiff need only show that it owns a trademark that is similar to the defendant’s domain name in order to prevail on its claim. This is the essence of the burden shift. A plaintiff who successfully proves that the defendant is cybersquatting on a domain name that is similar to its trademark does not need to prove that consumers are being confused. The cybersquatter must show that its use of the domain name is legitimate.\n\nThe Global-Tech case also made it easier for a plaintiff to win a cybersquatting case because of the additional burdens placed on a defendant.\n\nFirst, the Global-Tech case made it harder for a cybersquatting defendant to defend itself on the merits. Before Global-Tech, a defendant could defend a cybersquatting claim by arguing that its use of the domain name was not confusing to consumers. However, after Global-Tech, a defendant can no longer rely on its good faith use of the domain name to show that it is not cybersquatting. Instead, a defendant must show that its use of the mark is legitimate. This has led to claims of cybersquatting where the mark and the domain name are similar, but where there is no evidence that consumers are being confused.\n\nSecond, the Global-Tech case made it easier for a cybersquatting plaintiff to obtain injunctive relief. Traditionally, a cybersquatting plaintiff had to show that it was likely to prevail on its claim in order to obtain an injunction to prevent a defendant from using its domain name. After Global-Tech, a plaintiff need only show that the defendant is likely to profit from its use of the domain name to obtain an injunction. Since an injunction may be obtained before trial, this allows plaintiffs to eliminate the use of their marks by defendants before they can defend their actions in court.\n\nThe Global-Tech case has led to a shift in the burden of proof in cybersquatting cases. This shift has created an environment where cybersquatting cases are becoming more difficult to defend.