"Maybe it's because this was the only game in town, but both of these types of games have grown stale to me. I feel a lot of that is due to having seen the pattern so often that I know when the surprises are coming. I have not played Final Fantasy XII yet but I have no reason to think that this one is going to be any different. The only thing I can say that would be new is that the maps are going to be quite large. And even that is starting to feel more like a gimmick and less like something that adds to the game play. If it weren't for this system, I wouldn't be able to enjoy these games.\n\n\n\nWhile this system isn't perfect, it's better than the way it was in FFX. This system allows you to do things without being tied to one person or just your party. If I had any complaint, it would be that you still have to level up.\n\n\n\nAlso, a lot of people are saying that it will be more like X. While I agree that it's a lot like X, it's also much like X-2. That is, you get a new license board to progress the characters. You're given more freedom to change up your party and strategy. You have a lot of new abilities for the characters to use.\n\n\n\nI actually really enjoy both of these games. As far as I'm concerned, it's a toss up between X and XII. Either game would have been fine to be the last game in the series. I don't think there was a bad choice between the two. If there is one difference between the two, it's that XII is a lot more fast paced. I don't feel the need to grind as much in XII. Also, I like that you get more character development in XII.\n\n\n\nI just don't see the problem with having more than one person telling you what to do. It just depends on the story as to who it will be. It's not going to be every single person you meet. And if you have so much dialogue with everyone you meet, the game would become boring really fast.\n\n\n\nIt's hard to say if the game is going to be good or not. I'm not going to complain if it isn't, though. The game is out of Nomura's hands and even if it is a bit different from the previous games, that doesn't mean it's bad.