First published Thu Jul 16, 2008\n\nThe term ‘atheism’ is used in several distinct, but related, ways. First, atheism may be used to describe the view that there are no deities, that is, no God or gods. Second, atheism may be used to describe the view that belief in deities is false. Third, atheism may be used to describe the view that belief in deities is irrational or without epistemic justification. Finally, atheism may be used to describe the view that the existence of deities is improbable. Each of these distinct usages will be discussed in turn.\n\n1. Defining Atheism\n\nThe English term ‘atheism’ is a neologism. It was coined in the sixteenth century, most likely by one of the followers of Martin Luther. It is derived from the Greek terms ‘a’ (without) and ‘theos’ (god), and was originally intended to mean, quite literally, ‘without gods’. The terms ‘atheist’ and ‘atheism’ were not meant to be pejorative; indeed, they were meant to be descriptively accurate. A person who does not believe in the existence of deities is properly called an atheist.\n\nAlthough the term ‘atheist’ was first coined in the sixteenth century, there were atheistic views expressed well before that time. The ancient Greek philosophers Epicurus (341–270 BCE) and Diagoras of Melos (5th century BCE) were probably the first Western thinkers to express atheistic views. Later, the Roman philosopher Sextus Empiricus (160–210 CE) characterized atheism as the claim that the existence of deities is unsupported by reason. And during the European Renaissance and Enlightenment, various thinkers—most notably, Baruch Spinoza (1632–1677)—espoused fully developed, sophisticated atheistic world-views.\n\nThe primary focus of this entry is contemporary Western atheism. There are, however, two pre-theistic Western thinkers who are of particular importance to the contemporary study of atheism. The first is Socrates (c. 470–399 BCE), the preeminent figure in Western philosophy. Although Socrates never explicitly states that he does not believe in gods, he offers a number of arguments that can be construed as atheistic. For instance, in Plato's Euthyphro, Socrates asks Euthyphro to provide a definition of ‘holiness’. After three failed attempts, Euthyphro concludes that holiness is what is loved by the gods. Socrates points out that this is circular reasoning, for the proposition that the gods love what is holy is merely another way of saying that the gods love what is holy. But this, says Socrates, is tantamount to the claim that the gods love what is holy because the gods love what is holy. And this is clearly a vicious circle. Thus, Euthyphro has failed to provide a definition of ‘holiness’, and has also failed to provide a justification for theistic belief. Similar arguments may be found in Plato's Theaetetus, Sophist, and Republic. In the Theaetetus, Socrates gives a number of arguments to show that, if the demiurge did create the world, then he must have used a model. But the existence of a model is incompatible with the definition of a creator, which is that a creator must be the original and have no model. Therefore, if the demiurge exists, then he cannot be a creator. In the Sophist, Socrates discusses the problem of false judgments. His discussion centers on the thesis that if something appears F, but is not F, then it is not the case that it appears F. It turns out that it is impossible to know what appears F but is not F. Therefore, according to Socrates, it is impossible to make false judgments. But this is absurd, for all judgments are either true or false. Therefore, all judgments are either known or not known. But it is not the case that all judgments are either known or not known. Therefore, the thesis that all judgments are either known or not known is false. This argument can be construed as an attack on the coherence of theistic belief. Finally, in Plato's Republic, Socrates uses an argument that is now known as ‘Socrates’ dream’ to show that the philosopher is the only sort of person fit to rule in a just society. His argument turns on the claim that when we are asleep we are able to imagine things. But we are not aware of imagining things. Therefore, when we are asleep we do not know that we are imagining things. Thus, according to Socrates, we are not aware of imagining things when we are awake either. Therefore, we are not aware of imagining things now. But if we are not aware of imagining things now, then we are not aware of existing now. But we are aware of existing now. Therefore, we are not imagining things now. But if we are not imagining things now, then we are not dreaming. But we are dreaming. Therefore, we are not dreaming now. But we are dreaming now. Therefore, the thesis that we are dreaming now is false. The conclusion of this argument is that the philosopher is the only sort of person fit to rule in a just society. One of the most important points of this argument is that it must be the case that we are aware of existing now, even when we are dreaming. This point is crucial to the argument because it means that when we dream we do not have the experience of existing now. But if we are not having the experience of existing now, then we are not dreaming. Thus, the thesis that we are dreaming now is false. In his examination of dreams, Socrates suggests that there are four different ways of ‘being’. These are the ways of being awake, asleep, dreaming, and being dead. It turns out that only the being awake and the being dead ways of ‘being’ are truly ‘being’. The being asleep and the being dead ways of ‘being’ are not ‘being’. Thus, the beings asleep and the beings dead ways of ‘being’ are not the same way of ‘being’ as the beings awake and the being dead ways of ‘being’. But if the beings asleep and the beings dead ways of ‘being’ are not the same way of ‘being’ as the beings awake and the being dead ways of ‘being’, then the beings asleep and the beings dead ways of ‘being’ are not truly ‘being’. Therefore, the beings asleep and the beings dead ways of ‘being’ are not truly ‘being’. The conclusion of this argument is that only the being awake and being dead ways of ‘being’ are truly ‘being’. This is a crucial point, for it is clear that we are having the experience of being awake, but not the experience of being asleep or being dead. Therefore, it is impossible that we are truly ‘being’ asleep or truly ‘being’ dead. But if we are not truly ‘being’ asleep or truly ‘being’ dead, then it is impossible for us to be truly ‘being’ these things. Therefore, it is impossible for us to be truly ‘being’ things that do not exist, like the demiurge or the Forms. The conclusion of this argument is that there are no demiurgic beings or Forms.\n\nThe second pre-theistic Western thinker of particular importance to the contemporary study of atheism is Baruch Spinoza (1632–1677). Spinoza was raised in a Portuguese Jewish community in Amsterdam, and later studied Euclid, Descartes, and Latin classics at a Collegiant Academy. In 1656, he published a short treatise on the correct interpretation of Scripture, Tractatus Theologico-Politicus, anonymously. Spinoza was banished from the Jewish community of Amsterdam for the content of this work, and later went into hiding. He was re-discovered in 1661, and was offered the choice between retracting his claims and being banished or going into exile voluntarily. He chose to go into exile voluntarily, and spent the last four years of his life in the German town of Rijnsburg, where he wrote most of his important works.\n\nSpinoza rejected the immortality of the soul, the existence of angels and demons, the notion that God stands in a special relationship with Jews, and the view that God performs miracles in the world. He also rejected the view that the content of Scripture is dictated by God, saying instead that Scripture must be interpreted in the same manner as any other book. Although the label ‘atheist’ is not often applied to Spinoza, the content of his thought is largely consistent with what contemporary philosophers mean by ‘atheism’.\n\nThere are many varieties of atheism, and a correspondingly large number of definitions of the term. Here, I will limit my discussion to those definitions that are most widely accepted by contemporary philosophers. In addition, I will adopt a broadly deflationary conception of atheism, on which atheism is not a substantive philosophical position, but merely a denial of theistic belief. On this conception, an atheist is someone who does not believe in the existence of any deities, not someone who positively believes that no deities exist.\n\nLet us begin by considering the definitional project. Is there a clear and uncontroversial definition of atheism that can be agreed upon by all philosophers? In his extensive discussions of atheism, Schellenberg (2000) argues that there is not. And according to Schellenberg, this lack of agreement is not merely the result of academic