What Is Paganism?\n\nThe term “pagan” originated as a derogatory term for non-Christian peoples. Pagans have been in the past and still are today worshippers of a variety of gods and goddesses. Pagan traditions include the Germanic and Norse pantheons, the Greek and Roman pantheons, and the Celtic pantheon. Paganism today includes Wicca, which is a religion of goddess worship, and Shamanism, which is a religion based on communicating with spirits. Pagan traditions, such as Wicca, do not adhere to the laws of the Christian God or to the authority of the Christian Church. Therefore, they are considered heresy by the Catholic Church. There are many pagan paths, but they all have a great deal in common.\n\nWhat Are The Characteristics Of Paganism?\n\nA primary characteristic of pagan religions is the practice of magic. In Wicca, magic is considered a natural part of the world, and its practitioners consider themselves to be more in tune with the natural world. In pagan religions, the world is seen as an extension of the human body. Everything in the universe is interrelated and interdependent. The Wiccan faith teaches that there are several different planes of existence. Each of these different planes is inhabited by various types of beings, including angels, elementals, and deities. Pagan religions view the universe as being alive. This is very different from the Christian view of the universe as being created by God and sustained by him.\n\nThe belief in a single god is a major difference between pagan religions and Christianity. Pagan religions often worship a large number of gods and goddesses. Pagans often worship female deities, and they often see women as having a special role in the faith. They often see women as being closer to the gods, and they often have religious ceremonies that involve sacred prostitutes.\n\nAnother characteristic of pagan religions is their lack of an afterlife. They do not believe that people have immortal souls that will go to a paradise after they die. Pagans believe that after a person dies, he or she joins the various other spirits and deities in the universe.\n\nPaganism is polytheistic. It is the belief in more than one god or goddess. Paganism is animistic. It is the belief that everything has a spirit or soul.\n\nWhat Is The Purpose Of Paganism?\n\nThe purpose of pagan religions is to worship a variety of gods and goddesses. They worship to gain the favor of these deities. Wiccans worship the goddess because they believe that she gives them life and strength. They also seek her blessings in return for worship. Pagan religions also seek to influence the course of the natural world by using magic. They believe that magic will bring them health, wealth, and happiness.\n\nAre Pagan Practices For Today?\n\nThe beliefs and practices of pagan religions have a long history. Some practices are still practiced by pagans today. For example, ancient pagans practiced sky worship. They believed that each god and goddess represented a different aspect of the sky.\n\nThe pagans also believed in magic. Magic is still used by Wiccans today. Wiccans believe that magic is a way to control nature and change the course of events. Magic is also used to influence the actions of others. Wiccans also practice sky worship and sky gods.