The Rolling Stones bring more than half a century of hits to their “On Air” tour, which is currently hitting arenas around the U.S. For more than 50 years, the legendary rock band has been able to maintain a top-notch musical prowess and prolific discography, despite several hiatuses and several breakups. Rolling Stone magazine, for instance, recently included the Stones in its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, placing them at No. 13. Their influence in rock music is undeniable, especially considering that the Rolling Stones are one of the most commercially successful bands in history, selling more than 200 million albums worldwide. In addition, they have 12 number one albums and 18 number one singles. With countless hit songs under their belt, it is no wonder that this famous band has been able to attract hundreds of thousands of fans to their recent concert dates. Buy your The Rolling Stones tickets to enjoy an amazing live show!\n\nView The Rolling Stones Tickets\n\nThe Rolling Stones\n\nBritish rock band The Rolling Stones has been an iconic figure in the history of rock music since the 1950s. The band formed in 1962 and is still touring today. The band members are Charlie Watts, Keith Richards, Mick Jagger, and Ronnie Wood. These five individuals, who had a very interesting start, are considered one of the most successful rock bands of all time. They have sold more than 200 million albums worldwide. They are also credited as one of the greatest live acts in music history.\n\nThe Rolling Stones began their career as a pop and R&B cover band. They also incorporated jazz elements in their music. They achieved worldwide fame with their hit single “(I Can’t Get No) Satisfaction.” It has since become one of the most recognizable and classic rock songs in music history. They followed the song with the equally popular “Paint it Black” in 1966. Other great songs in the 1960s include “Get Off My Cloud,” “19th Nervous Breakdown,” “Mother’s Little Helper,” “Jumpin’ Jack Flash,” and “You Can’t Always Get What You Want.”\n\nFollowing a lengthy break from touring, The Rolling Stones returned to the road in 1982. In 1986, the band played what is believed to be their final show at the Altamont Speedway in California. The concert has since become a notorious case study in cultural history and has been regarded as the moment that led to the end of the “Summer of Love” in the United States.\n\nThe band’s success was not limited to its early years. The Rolling Stones have released numerous hits throughout the 1990s and 2000s, including “Start Me Up,” “Brown Sugar,” “Wild Horses,” “You Got Me Rocking,” “Can’t You Hear Me Knocking,” “Miss You,” “Paint It Black,” “Honky Tonk Woman,” and “Under My Thumb.” In 2004, the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Rolling Stones remain a popular act on the road. They have been on tour in recent years and have scheduled more concert dates for 2016. They will be playing the Starplex Pavilion in Dallas, the Fiddlers Green Amphitheatre in Englewood, the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, and the Sleep Train Amphitheatre in Chula Vista. They have been invited to play in arenas, stadiums, and even stadiums as a guest band. They have won several awards, including 12 Grammy awards. The band has had many successful albums, including “Sticky Fingers,” “Tattoo You,” “Some Girls,” “Beggars Banquet,” and “Exile on Main St.”\n\nThe Rolling Stones are certainly one of the most important rock bands in music history. They have contributed significantly to the development of rock music and set an example of success for other bands. If you are a fan, then buy your The Rolling Stones tickets and see them in concert!\n\nThe Rolling Stones Tickets PRICES As of 25/07/2018 the average The Rolling Stones tickets will cost you between $205 and $1790, if you are looking for the cheapest seats then catch the event being held at the The Forum - Los Angeles, Inglewood on 27/08/2018. The"