The brains of infants are more flexible than those of adults. They can learn and absorb information like sponges.\n\nAt one time, that's what scientists thought. Then brain researchers discovered that the adult brain is in fact plastic, too, as long as you're willing to get out of your comfort zone. It turns out the difference between infant and adult brains has to do with what they're doing, and not what they're made of.\n\nA big reason for the differences between adult and infant brains is that adults tend to specialize. Once we've become an expert at something, we have a hard time doing anything else. We don't want to be flexible.\n\nThink of a professional pianist who's no longer able to appreciate music. The same is true of all kinds of things, including reading.\n\n"Once you have learned to read, it can be harder to learn to write, and it can be harder to learn to speak a foreign language, because you have this other thing you're used to doing," says Maryanne Wolf, a neuroscientist and literacy researcher at Tufts University.\n\nAnother problem is that the adult brain is not very good at forming new brain cells. In fact, the adult brain loses about 10,000 brain cells a day.\n\nWhen it comes to losing brain cells, it turns out infants are the big losers. A baby is born with about 100 billion brain cells, which is far more than any other animal on the planet. Then the brain starts pruning. Infants lose about one billion brain cells a day, and the rate of cell loss keeps increasing throughout childhood and adolescence.\n\nMost neuroscientists believe that it's better to have too many brain cells than too few, because the brain can't do anything until it develops all its basic components.\n\n"Children actually are growing their brain cells at the same time they're pruning away other connections, which is not at all understood and which is fascinating," Wolf says.\n\nWhy do kids need to be able to prune away connections? Because the brain's wiring system is not finished until a child reaches about 12 years of age. So much is happening, Wolf says, that "all of that synapse-making is both a blessing and a curse."\n\nSynapses are the connections between brain cells, the hardware of the brain. Think of them as your cell phone's apps. You want lots of apps, because they make your phone versatile. But at the same time, too many apps slow down your phone.\n\nNeuroscientists have discovered that the key to learning is not making more synapses, it's strengthening the ones you already have. That means finding the best connections, and then getting rid of the ones that are not working.\n\nThis process of strengthening and weakening connections is what neuroscientists call synaptic plasticity. We see it every day in the way babies learn to crawl and walk. At first, they're very unsteady on their feet. As they learn, they adjust their walking to avoid obstacles. Eventually, they get better and better at walking. Then, if they don't use it, they lose it. They become more specialized at walking, and less flexible.\n\nSo the difference between adult and infant brains is not that babies have more synapses. It's that their synapses are less specialized. They're not attached to just one skill or task. They're flexible.