Sailing through the dark, narrow tunnels under the pyramids and reaching the Nile.\n\nBy Gregory Scruggs\n\nAs we motored under the Nile, the stench of the sewage flowing into the river filled the air and a flock of flamingos swam past the motorboat’s bow. Passing under two massive stone tunnels, ancient sewage pipes constructed more than 4,000 years ago, and soon we entered the dark, earthen tomb of Queen Henuttawy.\n\nAs part of a three-week Nile cruise from Aswan to Cairo, we embarked on an evening excursion under the Great Pyramid of Khufu in Giza, one of the Seven Wonders of the World, to explore the ancient Queen Henuttawy’s tomb.\n\nThe Nile cruise is one of the most unique ways to see the country, especially the ancient sites, and avoid the intense heat. While most tourists see the pyramids of Giza and the Great Sphinx from a tour bus, we were actually on the river next to the famous monument.\n\nAs the captain slowed down the motorboat and steered toward the eastern bank, a line of three dark shafts could be seen on the western bank of the Nile. These shafts, or openings in the ground, lead to the tombs of ancient Egyptians, who were interred in the tombs with their belongings, such as furniture and jewelry.\n\nThe tomb of Queen Henuttawy is a good example of a New Kingdom shaft tomb, which were constructed during the 18th Dynasty (1550-1295 BCE). It is believed that this was the first royal burial chamber ever to be built in the area of Giza, where the great pyramids of Khufu, Khafre and Menkaure were constructed. In fact, these three tombs have more in common with each other than with those of earlier kings. This is also the first time a woman, Queen Henuttawy, was buried in the vicinity of Giza.\n\nThe shaft tombs are created by digging a long, narrow, oval-shaped shaft (or hole) about 20 feet deep. They are located on the western bank of the Nile, along what was called the “road to the fields,” because this was the direction that farmers and travelers would walk toward the fields outside of the area of Giza.\n\nThe only other shaft tomb on the western bank is that of Khaemwaset, which was built more than 200 years after the Queen Henuttawy shaft tomb. The Queen Henuttawy tomb consists of a single, 5.5 meter (18 foot) long chamber cut into the rock, the walls and ceiling of which are decorated with a series of hieroglyphic texts.\n\nThe chamber is sealed by a pair of black granite blocks. An engraved picture of the pharaoh Ramses II adorns the wall. To the left of the block is the inscription: “in the year 10, the fourth month of summer, day 10, in the morning, the king was in his palace, with the Chief of Works in the House of Khnum, Monthuemhat.”\n\nNext to this is the depiction of the mummy of Queen Henuttawy being carried in a litter. A long inscription then follows, ending with the phrase: “The king did this for her.” There are four more scenes in the tomb, including one with an image of the dead Queen Henuttawy being taken in a litter to the pyramid complex.\n\nOther scenes depict Henuttawy sitting in the midst of women, which includes Queen Nebet. One image shows the goddesses Nekhbet and Bastet being carried on the backs of lions to the tomb. Another scene shows the goddess Nut pouring water from a vase onto the ground in front of the image of Queen Henuttawy.\n\nFrom a statue of a lion that is still in the tomb, it is clear that it originally had a statue of Henuttawy herself sitting on its back, but that has been lost. Another stone block in the tomb depicts two cobras on top of a basket. The snake is associated with the goddesses Isis and Nephthys.\n\nAfter this, the tomb gets very interesting.\n\nAnother block in the chamber shows four male figures standing and a female figure seated. A head of a mummy lies on the right of the seated figure. One figure is standing with his right arm extended and the left hand is on his chest. The seated figure holds a scepter in her left hand and the right arm is leaning on a chair. Behind the seated figure is another figure seated with the right leg crossed over the left and with his hands in his lap.\n\nThis seated figure is shown with a different image from the others. He wears a kilt and is wearing a crown and sitting on a chair with a scepter in his right hand and a basket in his left hand.\n\nAn accompanying inscription says: “the head of the King’s Chief Physician, Khay.” Another figure has the same crown as the first seated figure, but is shown wearing a short kilt and carrying a stick in his right hand. The name of this figure was lost to history.\n\nThe last figure shows the left arm extended and the right hand in his lap. On his head is a short wig and he is wearing a short kilt. The accompanying inscription says: “the Chief Scribe of the Necropolis, Khnumhotep,” who was also the grandson of Queen Henuttawy’s father, who served as the Chief Priest of the god Khnum, and was also known as Khnumhotep.\n\nThe only other instance in which all four male figures are depicted is in the Great Pyramid of Khufu, and they are all believed to be images of the king. These figures have been said to represent King Khufu, his son Djedefre, and his grandsons, Khafre and Menkaure.\n\nThe final block depicts the image of Queen Henuttawy being carried by two women. It shows her head and body to be wrapped in a cloth, while the arms are free."