"Head Start's role in poverty reduction: Preliminary evidence from New York City\n\nDiane Schanzenbach, Jean-Pierre Vincent\n\nIn the United States, children from low-income families are disproportionately at risk of experiencing developmental delays. However, there is a growing body of evidence that targeted interventions can improve these outcomes. In this column, the authors assess Head Start, a preschool program that is one of the largest, most intensive early childhood interventions in the US. They show that a child who participated in Head Start in the late 1980s and early 1990s was less likely to be in poverty as an adult.\n\nDespite decades of effort, US child poverty rates are still unacceptably high. In 2011, nearly one in five children was in poverty (18%), with African-American and Hispanic children experiencing child poverty rates more than twice that of non-Hispanic whites. The persistence of child poverty is worrying. A growing body of evidence suggests that the first few years of life are particularly important for long-term outcomes. Children who are not supported during their earliest years may struggle to keep pace with their peers and, without assistance, may have difficulty moving beyond the disadvantages that plague low-income families.\n\nThe role of targeted early childhood interventions\n\nThe potential of targeted early childhood interventions to ameliorate the effects of poverty is illustrated by the results of several recent experimental evaluations (Barnett 2001, Currie 2009, Duncan and Magnuson 2011). For example, the evaluation of the Perry Preschool Project found that, in the 1960s, children randomly assigned to participate in an early childhood intervention experienced long-term increases in their educational attainment, wages, and family income.1 They also experienced improved health and lower rates of criminal behaviour and teenage pregnancy. Similarly, the evaluation of the Abecedarian Project, which began in the 1970s, found that, at age twenty-five, children who had participated in a high-quality early childhood programme as preschoolers were significantly less likely to be in poverty, less likely to have received public assistance, and less likely to have received food stamps, welfare, or other cash assistance as adults than their comparison group counterparts.2\n\nOne of the largest and most intensive early childhood interventions in the US is Head Start. As such, it provides an important opportunity to examine the long-term impacts of a large-scale public investment in early childhood education. In a new paper, we use administrative data to assess the long-term impacts of Head Start on child and adult outcomes (Schanzenbach and Vincent 2015).\n\nHead Start\n\nThe Head Start programme provides comprehensive early childhood education to low-income children aged three to five. Programmes are administered by non-profit organisations or local education agencies and provide educational, health, nutritional, and other social services to enrolled children and their families. Children are enrolled in Head Start by their families and may remain enrolled for as long as three years.\n\nHead Start enrolment has grown substantially over time. In 1965, Congress passed the Head Start Act with the goal of providing preschool to every low-income four-year-old in the country. To date, Head Start has served more than one million children. Enrolment has grown substantially in recent years due to an influx of funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and subsequent legislation. As of 2014, Head Start served nearly one million children, an increase of 33% from 2009. Over half of the four-year-olds served by Head Start are from low-income families.3\n\nOur research\n\nWhile there have been several experimental evaluations of Head Start, to date there has been no large-scale, randomised controlled trial of the programme. As such, the estimated effects of Head Start are based on a combination of experimental studies and observational studies. A meta-analysis of the literature concluded that early Head Start participation improves cognitive skills and leads to a small reduction in behavioural problems. The impact on achievement, however, was small and no longer statistically significant when attrition was taken into account.4\n\nIn our paper, we build on these findings by using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY) to assess the long-term impacts of Head Start.5 The NLSY is a nationally representative sample of individuals who were aged 12 to 16 years in 1979. It includes detailed data on the characteristics of both NLSY members and their families. These data allow us to construct a sample of NLSY members who were eligible for Head Start in 1979 and to follow their subsequent lives over time.\n\nWe use several approaches to analyse the long-term impacts of Head Start participation. First, we assess whether Head Start participation influences child poverty status. In the case of child poverty, our results suggest that children who participated in Head Start are less likely to be in poverty than children who were eligible but did not participate in Head Start.\n\nNext, we consider the impact of Head Start on employment and earnings. We find that, when looking at both men and women, children who participated in Head Start have higher levels of employment and higher levels of earnings than children who were eligible but did not participate. Moreover, the impact of Head Start participation is larger for men than women. This finding is consistent with the fact that boys, who are more likely to be enrolled in Head Start, also have higher levels of employment and earnings than girls in the NLSY sample.\n\nFinally, we explore the effects of Head Start participation on a wide range of health and behavioural outcomes. These include both current health outcomes, such as obesity and hospitalisation, as well as long-term health outcomes, such as obesity and high cholesterol. While there is little evidence of impacts on these outcomes for children who were enrolled in Head Start, we do find that participating in Head Start improves adult health outcomes. Specifically, we find that men who participated in Head Start are less likely to be obese than men who were eligible but did not participate. In addition, men who participated in Head Start have lower cholesterol levels and are less likely to be diagnosed with high cholesterol than men who were eligible but did not participate.\n\nOur findings indicate that Head Start participation appears to increase labour market success and, in particular, the employment and earnings of men. In addition, Head Start participation appears to improve adult health outcomes.\n\nConcluding remarks\n\nOur research suggests that Head Start is associated with long-term improvements in child poverty, adult employment, and adult health outcomes. However, there is much we still do not know about the effects of Head Start. We do not know, for example, the relative importance of the Head Start programme itself, as opposed to the resources that families receive through Head Start, in accounting for its impacts. In addition, we do not know the precise mechanisms through which Head Start may influence the long-term outcomes of participants. Finally, we are unable to assess the relative importance of Head Start participation on the life outcomes of participants. Our findings, in short, are preliminary and suggestive. Additional research is required to build on the insights presented here and to provide a more comprehensive assessment of the impacts of Head Start.\n\nReferences\n\nBarnett, W (2001), "Estimating the Return to Head Start", American Economic Review, 91: 1586–1608.\n\nCurrie, J (2009), "The Long-Term Effects of Head Start", American Economic Review, 99: 1867–1894.\n\nDuncan, G and Magnuson, K (2011), "Early Childhood Programs and Chronic Offending: Evidence from Head Start", Journal of Human Resources, 46: 499–528.\n\nMeyer, B, Bates, J, Head Start Impact Study Group (2010), "The Impact of Head Start on Children, Families, and Communities", Journal of the American Medical Association, 303: 1338–1345.\n\nNational Center for Education Statistics (2014), "Digest of Education Statistics", Tables 101, 102, 104.\n\nSchanzenbach, D and Vincent, J P (2015), "Head Start's Role in Reducing Child Poverty", NBER Working Paper 20750.