"The following comments by Army Staff Sgt. Jesse Lyn Branch, winner of the Victoria Cross, were made on Sunday to an Associated Press reporter, shortly before a tour of the main Commonwealth Cemetery at Ypres, where more than 35,000 British and Commonwealth soldiers are buried. The tour was part of the visit of the Prime Minister, the Right Honorable Edward P. Mulgan, the first Australian Prime Minister to visit Europe since the end of World War II.\n\nThe visit to the British Cemetery was an emotional moment. As the VIP's stood there and paid their respects to the many soldiers who had died, the battlefield layed silent and peaceful.\n\nFor a brief moment I felt as if I was back in the trenches once more, holding back the line. But as I looked around the desolate field and observed the many names on the headstones, I couldn't help but to think of the fact that this place was in fact a killing field. It was an eerie feeling that I couldn't shake. A feeling that I was caught up in a moment that had happened so long ago, but still was quite vivid in my mind.\n\nAlthough I had been to Ypres many times before, I had never stopped to think about what this place had been like during the First World War. I had never really given much thought to the numbers of soldiers who had died here. I'd never stopped to think about what their lives had been like and what had brought them here to this place. I knew they had been here. I knew there had been fighting here, but I had never given the impression that these soldiers were anything more than a body count. This is where my journey really began. This was the beginning of my education in what the War had been like.\n\nAs I walked across the cemetery to a group of VC recipients, I felt as if I had suddenly been transported back into the past. It was almost as if I could feel the wind against my face, and the sound of the bombs as they fell. It was almost as if I could smell the gunpowder. This was a surreal feeling, and as I walked amongst the graves, I felt as if I was intruding on a moment that should have been left alone, preserved forever in time.\n\nI walked from headstone to headstone and read the inscriptions. I felt as if I was reading the names of soldiers who were my friends, men I had gone to war with. Names I recognized. The names of soldiers I had fought and shared danger with. This was all real. The feelings I was experiencing were all real, and they were very strong. These men were not just a body count. They were real people with real lives. They had been alive and breathing at one point, and here I was, walking amongst their graves, visiting their final resting places.\n\nAs I moved through the cemetery I realized that the bodies of the soldiers I had seen in the trenches during the War were most likely lying here. The bodies that had lain in front of me were the very bodies I had stepped over and tried to avoid. The very bodies that had lain in front of me as I dug my way through the trenches. I had seen their faces and seen their blank stares, but never once had I considered what they might have been like in life. Never once had I considered that they might have been people with hopes and dreams, people with lives and families. Never once had I considered that they might have been like me.\n\nThis place gave me an overwhelming feeling of sadness and despair. Sadness for the men who had fallen. Sadness for the men who would soon die. Despair for what the war had done to this beautiful country and to the people who lived here. The war had been so devastating that it made me feel sad for all of the future generations that would never see this place the way it was before the war. This place had been ripped apart by war, and that made me feel sad. All that was left here now was sorrow and loss. A place filled with memories of those who had died, those who had suffered, and those who had been lost.\n\nAs I left the cemetery and walked back toward the jeeps that were to take us to the Australian cemetery, I looked back at the graves. I had never once seen them this way, but I felt like I had just received an education on a subject that I had never thought I would see. For a brief moment, I had been educated in the nature of war. I had learned about what it had been like. I had learned about the deaths of these men. I had learned about their sacrifices, and the sacrifices that had been made for them. I had learned about what they had gone through, and the things they had done. I had been educated in what it had been like to fight in the First World War.\n\nThe tour left me with a new understanding of the Great War. I had come to a place where soldiers had come from all over the world to fight for their countries. Men from France, from the Netherlands, from Germany, from Canada, from England, and from Australia. I had seen the graves of all these men, and now I understood their reasons for fighting. It had been an education. An education in what the War had been like. An education in why these men had gone to war. An education in their hardships and their sacrifices. An education in their determination. An education in the fact that these men were real people with real lives.\n\nYpres had been an overwhelming experience. I have been here many times before, but never had I had the opportunity to view the town in such a different light. Never had I had the chance to realize the scope of what the War had been like. Never had I had the opportunity to see this place as it was so long ago. I had seen the monuments and the buildings, but never had I seen the War. Never had I been able to visualize the soldiers in their trenches and the shells as they fell. Never had I been able to see what the war had done to this town. I had seen the effects of the war, but I had never been able to see it itself. Now, as I leave this place and begin my journey home, I will have a new understanding of the Great War.