From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\n\nThis article is about the model from biology. For the scientific journal, see EPL (journal)\n\nEfflux is the term given to the movement of solutes (e.g., ions, metabolites, neurotransmitters) from an extracellular space back into a cell.\n\nIn biology\n\nIn living organisms, the movement of substances across cell membranes is determined by a delicate balance of processes. One of the most important of these is the ability of a cell to maintain a steady level of substances (e.g., ions, metabolites, nutrients, etc.) within itself. When this homeostatic equilibrium is perturbed, cells may take action to recover the equilibrium. If, for example, a cell's internal sodium level rises, this will trigger a mechanism to recover the normal concentration. Sodium is an essential nutrient and rising levels of it within a cell may be indicative of environmental changes that need to be dealt with.\n\nAt one time, it was thought that this process of the movement of substances out of a cell was governed by a unidirectional process known as the sodium pump. Sodium pumps move sodium out of a cell and into the extracellular space.\n\nResearch in the last decade has suggested that this model may be far too simple and that there is a complex network of transport mechanisms working together to achieve a relatively rapid restoration of equilibrium. Instead of a single mechanism, there may be a number of transport mechanisms involved, working in parallel and at various times. These mechanisms, collectively known as efflux, may be unidirectional, or they may involve the movement of both solutes and water across the membrane in either direction, depending on the circumstances. In this view, efflux is just one of several processes that can restore homeostasis to a cell, and it is no longer seen as a pump, but rather as part of a transport mechanism.\n\nIn pharmacology\n\nIn pharmacology, the term efflux is used in a different sense. Here, it is used to describe the expulsion of drugs from cells, e.g. efflux transporters. In this case, the term is often used to distinguish such expulsions from passive cellular membrane diffusion. The exact mechanisms for efflux can vary widely from one drug to another, although the most common mechanism involves the use of proteins known as ABC (ATP-binding cassette) efflux pumps.\n\nNotes\n\n^ Law of Mass Action, 1803 (Watt, 1803).