Ardeshir Khan\n\nArdeshir Khan is a former Fiji Indian politician, who won the Labasa Indian Communal Constituency, one of the two seats reserved for Fiji citizens of Indian origin, for the Fiji Labour Party (FLP) in the House of Representatives in the parliamentary elections of 2001.\n\nIn the House of Representatives, Khan successfully moved the "Prevention of Terrorism (Special Provisions) Bill 2001", supported by the government of Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase. The Bill, which became known as the "Anti-Terrorism Bill 2001", amended the "Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) 1997" to extend the period of detention without trial to a maximum of 18 months, and established a register of convicted terrorists. It also prohibited a terrorist organisation from operating under a different name, and authorised the Minister of Justice to request the removal of an organisation from the register if it had stopped functioning.\n\nKhan had earlier introduced a private member's bill which became the "Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 2002". This Act extended the period of detention without trial to a maximum of 12 months.\n\nArdeshir Khan was born on 11 October 1956 in Labasa, Fiji. His father, Krishna Khan, came from the Fiji Islands, and his mother, Seeta Khan, came from India. He has a brother, Parveen Khan.\n\nKhan is a former government servant. In December 2001, he was a teacher at the Yadavindra Public School in Lautoka. He left this post in June 2004 to stand for election in the Suva City Council election.\n\nKhan won the Labasa Indian Communal Constituency, one of the two seats reserved for Fiji citizens of Indian origin, for the Fiji Labour Party (FLP) in the House of Representatives in the parliamentary elections of 2001. He had previously unsuccessfully contested the Labasa Fijian Communal Constituency for the FLP in the general election of 1999. He won with 57.8 percent of the vote, defeating the candidate of the Conservative Alliance, who obtained 40.6 percent.\n\nIn the House of Representatives, Khan successfully moved the "Prevention of Terrorism (Special Provisions) Bill 2001", supported by the government of Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase. The Bill, which became known as the "Anti-Terrorism Bill 2001", amended the "Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) 1997" to extend the period of detention without trial to a maximum of 18 months, and established a register of convicted terrorists. It also prohibited a terrorist organisation from operating under a different name, and authorised the Minister of Justice to request the removal of an organisation from the register if it had stopped functioning.\n\nKhan had earlier introduced a private member's bill which became the "Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 2002". This Act extended the period of detention without trial to a maximum of 12 months.\n\nKhan was a supporter of Qarase, and defended the controversial Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill, which sought to establish a commission to compensate victims and pardon perpetrators of the Fiji coup of 2000. He maintained that the Bill did not pardon perpetrators of crimes, but rather provided for the payment of compensation to victims. He was a supporter of the legislation in a party meeting in Labasa. When he raised the issue, he was supported by party leader Mahendra Chaudhry.\n\nIn October 2002, Khan condemned the actions of three policemen who tried to forcibly enter a home in Nausori, near Suva, and drag out a man who was inside. Khan called the actions of the policemen "a barbaric show of violence". The police, who had arrived in an unmarked vehicle, were looking for two men who had been charged with weapons offences.\n\nIn January 2003, Khan and other MPs and Senators condemned the United States military action in Iraq, calling it a "war of aggression".\n\nKhan lost his seat in the House of Representatives in the 2006 elections.\n