P. G. Wodehouse (1881-1975) was one of the most widely read humorists of the twentieth century, and by the end of his life he had become a literary legend. But Wodehouse achieved his fame by accident. He was born in England to parents who were French-speaking English citizens living in Paris, and in 1899, at the age of eighteen, he took a job at a bank. A short time later, he began writing articles and short stories for London newspapers. In 1902, he began working for the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank in London. Wodehouse remained there for forty-three years. His first short story collection, Tales of St. Austin's, was published in 1902. His most successful early work was Piccadilly Jim (1915). In 1921, he became a contributor to the American humor magazine, Judge, and, in 1923, his short story collection Laughing Gas was published in the United States. Between 1925 and 1930, Wodehouse wrote a series of stories for the London Evening Standard about a bumbling but irresistible English butler named Jeeves. These stories were collected into a novel entitled, The Inimitable Jeeves, which became the first of ten Jeeves novels. The following year, Wodehouse moved from London to the United States to be closer to his American publishers and his many American fans. He became a U.S. citizen in 1955. During his career, he wrote and published some ninety-eight books. Though he is often compared to his friend, P. G. T. Beauregard, and though he had a special affinity for writing about the English aristocracy, Wodehouse's humor had a universal appeal. He once said that his humor was based on one of his own character traits: "I find myself more often than not trying to get out of things. . . . It's not laziness. It's the fact that I'm not at all sure of my capacity to get into them. It's the same thing in writing. I never know quite how a story is going to go till I start writing it. I can't plan the whole thing out beforehand." Wodehouse continued to write until a few years before his death in 1975. His son, the actor and director, Blandford Wodehouse, adapted several of his father's stories for the BBC and the stage, and a Wodehouse play, Happy Birthday, was also performed in the United States in the late 1970s.