This was our first cruise with Princess. We were very disappointed. Embarkation in Boston was a disaster. The lines were so long and after waiting for over 2 hours, we had to leave to catch our shuttle to the hotel. We had planned on going back to the port after the shuttle and went back the next day to board the ship. When we arrived, the line at check in had shortened to the point that the line was no longer an issue. Our stateroom was ready so we got our room key and went up. The stateroom was not in the best condition. We had trouble with the safe. The smoke detector was covered with paint. The wallpaper was coming off in the stateroom. There was no night light in the bathroom and the toilet seat would not stay up.\n\nThe food was not up to the standard we have seen on other cruise ships. The buffet food was often cold. The only food that was consistently hot was the stir fry station. The food in the dining room was also cold. The same thing happened to the roast beef at both lunch and dinner. The staff at the dining room always seemed to be running around. The food at the grill was great. The hamburger was very good and the cook at the grill was very friendly. The buffet had a small selection and not a very good selection of food. It was difficult to find a place to sit and the coffee bar had a long line.\n\nThe activities were not great. There were only a few scheduled events. We went to the sing and dance competition. The sound system did not work well. The prizes for the competition were very poor and were not even mentioned at the end of the show. We went to the “meet the captain” and it was not worth the time. We went to the pirate show and that was fun. The staff at the casino were not friendly. We had hoped for some gambling lessons from the staff. They did not offer them. We went to the morning exercise class and the instructor, who was very friendly, did not give us any instructions on how to do the exercises. We thought that was really strange. The nightly entertainment was good but a bit sparse. We could have done without the comedian. The singer was great and so was the quartet. The female singer was really great. We were there the night the staff sang Christmas songs and it was a very enjoyable show.\n\nOur cabin attendant was not very friendly and seemed to avoid us when we were at our cabin. We did not get the evening canapes. We received no extra towel animals.\n\nThe ports were very nice but some were rather boring. The people in New York and in New Orleans were not very friendly.\n\nThe cabin was not in the best condition. There were several things broken. The chair on our balcony was broken. The pull cord for the curtain had come out and the curtain was open during the day. We were not aware of that so we sat in the sun a few times. The button on the elevator for the top deck was broken. It said that you had to be on deck 9 to go up to 10 but you could go up to 11.\n\nWe thought that the staff at the end of the cruise, after we had completed the disembarkation survey, were a little more friendly. We were told that we would receive a letter and perhaps a discount on a future cruise. We have not received a letter yet and I don’t"