Stephen W. Kearney\n\nStephen Watts Kearney (June 17, 1794 – October 31, 1848) was an officer in the United States Army who is best known for his leadership in the Mexican–American War, in particular the Battle of Monterrey and the Battle of Buena Vista.\n\nKearney was born in Newark, New Jersey. He was a descendant of John Kearney (1635–1701), a native of Ireland who was the first of the family to settle in what became the United States. John's son Richard (1668–1734) was born in Bristol, England, but became a fur trader in what was then the English colonies and later became New Jersey. Richard was commissioned as an ensign by British colonial governor Jonathan Belcher in 1709.\n\nRichard's son James (1703–1785) was a general in the New Jersey colonial militia during the French and Indian War. James's son Stephen Watts Kearny, the namesake of the general, was a captain in the War of Independence and was at the surrender of General John Burgoyne. His home, the Kearney Mansion, has since been preserved in Newark.\n\nIn 1794 he moved with his parents to Louisville, Kentucky. His father, Alexander Morris Kearney, a native of South Carolina, was a captain in the American Revolutionary War. In the War of 1812, Kearney participated in the Battle of Lundy's Lane, where he was wounded and captured by the British. After being released, he joined the Missouri Rangers and, in 1813, married Mary Radcliffe Matthews. In 1814 he joined the 5th United States Infantry as its sixth lieutenant and served in the war against the Creek nation. In 1819 he was promoted to captain and assigned to the 1st U.S. Infantry. Kearney resigned from the Army in 1822 and became superintendent of Indian affairs at St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nIn 1832 Kearney was appointed as governor of the New Mexico Territory, where he was active in promoting settlement and negotiating treaties with the Native Americans. Kearney participated in the Gila Expedition of 1837 and then commanded the Army's Third Dragoon Regiment in Florida in 1837 and 1838.\n\nDuring the Mexican–American War, Kearney was appointed colonel of the 1st New York Dragoons on June 30, 1846. Kearney's new regiment was sent to Santa Fe, New Mexico, to reinforce the Army of New Mexico under Col. Stephen Watts Kearny (no relation). There they joined the march on the capital of Mexico City. On the way, Kearney's regiment carried out several successful raids, including the Battle of La Mesa, where he captured a large amount of ammunition and supplies. He took the Puebla de Los Angeles without opposition on December 7, 1846. There he received word that his promotion to brigadier general had been approved.\n\nKearny, reinforced by the 3rd Infantry and Mormon Battalion, took the city of Monterrey on September 25, 1846. During the battle, a cannonball tore away part of Kearny's jaw and neck.\n\nFollowing the battle, Kearney was carried to Saltillo for medical treatment. While he was recovering, Lt. Colonel John Garland was given command of the 1st Dragoons. In February 1847, Kearney returned to the army and resumed command of the dragoons. Kearney served in the Battle of Buena Vista, and later he fought in the Taos Revolt. He returned to the United States in October 1847 and was assigned to Fort Leavenworth in the Kansas Territory.\n\nKearney, a bachelor, died of cholera at Fort Leavenworth at the age of 54. He was buried in the Fort Leavenworth National Cemetery.\n\nSeveral U.S. Army installations are named in honor of Kearney, including Kearney Barracks in Wilhelmshaven, Germany, the Kearney Building at Fort Leavenworth, and Fort Kearny, Nebraska, which is now a state historic site.\n\n\n