This article was first published in German in Die Internationale (United Secretariat of the Fourth International) No.35-36, Autumn 1979\n\nThe Spartakus League of Germany (Spartakusbund) was founded in 1916 by the revolutionary Karl Liebknecht, together with the other members of the Central Committee of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) who voted for the party’s break with the Kaiser’s war policy. Spartakus was the name of the ancient Greek rebel army led by the slave Spartacus who fought against Roman oppression and became one of the early symbols of working-class revolution.\n\nDuring the war, Spartakus published a number of pamphlets, notably the Open Letter to the Central Committee of the German Social Democracy on the Tasks of International Socialism (December 1916). This Open Letter discussed the tasks of the German working class in connection with the war and the fate of the International. Lenin referred to it as ‘a magnificent, very important, very serious and very timely document’. Spartakus was also the first to develop the strategy of the Workers’ Councils, which was later taken up by the Russian Bolsheviks. Liebknecht even called for an immediate overthrow of the government and the establishment of a dictatorship of the proletariat. He began to agitate among the German soldiers and in July 1917 was arrested and sent to the front, where he took part in a number of clandestine activities.\n\nThe Spartakusbund was able to organise various clandestine publications. With the beginning of the revolutionary movement in November 1918, its membership increased dramatically and it soon became a mass organisation of the German working class.\n\nIn the revolutionary crisis of November 1918, Liebknecht published the appeal of the Spartakusbund, which stated that ‘it was the duty of the workers to overthrow the government and the generals who were responsible for the war. It was necessary to end the anarchy which existed in Germany and put in its place a Workers’ and Soldiers’ Councils system which would really organise the whole of economic life in the interests of the working class’. The Spartakusbund was the first organisation to publish a pamphlet on the organisation of the Workers’ Councils (Workers’ Councils and the Revolutionary Struggle) and to advocate the formation of workers’ militias to defend the councils. It also began to publish the newspaper Die Rote Fahne (The Red Flag).\n\nAt the beginning of January 1919, the Spartakusbund took part in the workers’ uprising in Berlin which was led by the communist Karl Liebknecht. This was the beginning of the German Revolution, which lasted until 1923 and in which the Spartakusbund played an important role.\n\nAfter the abortive Berlin uprising, the Spartakusbund initiated the formation of the German Communist Party (KPD). Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg participated in the first congress of the KPD, which took place from 30 December 1918 to 2 January 1919. The first national conference of the KPD, which took place from 28 March to 1 April 1919, had 26 delegates present, including five delegates from the Spartakusbund.\n\nRosa Luxemburg, Karl Liebknecht and other leading members of the Spartakusbund were members of the Central Committee of the KPD. On 5 January 1919, Rosa Luxemburg became editor of the paper Die Rote Fahne, and Liebknecht became deputy editor. The paper became the central organ of the KPD. Liebknecht and Luxemburg also edited and contributed to other publications of the party.\n\nIn the Reichstag elections of January 1919, the Spartakusbund, along with the Communist Party of Bavaria and the Communist Party of Hessen, were affiliated with the Communist International.\n\nAt the Second Congress of the Communist International, held in Moscow in July 1920, a decision was taken to reorganise the German Communist Party into the KPD (of Germany), with a membership of 40,000. At this Congress, Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg were elected to the ECCI. In addition to their positions in the KPD, Liebknecht was elected a member of the Executive of the Communist International, and Luxemburg was a member of the Presidium of the KPD. At this Congress, Liebknecht took an active part in the debate on the role of the revolutionary party in the International, and the relationship between the Executive and the Congress of the International.\n\nOn the basis of the work of the Congress, the KPD published its Theses, Resolutions and Decisions, a document that became the theoretical basis of the Communist International and which in particular outlined the role of the party and of the Executive.\n\nDuring the years of the German Revolution, Liebknecht and Luxemburg continued their campaign for the unity of the working class, for the unity of the social democrats, the communists and the anarcho-syndicalists. They worked together with a number of left social democrats, including Julian Borchardt, Willi Eichler, Hermann Greulich and Wilhelm Pieck, to defend the unity of the working class and the revolutionary movement in Germany. However, despite their efforts, the left of the German Social Democracy remained divided and the question of the revolutionary unity of the working class could not be resolved in practice.\n\nLiebknecht and Luxemburg fought for the workers’ councils, and were opposed to the centralisation of the revolutionary power into the hands of the executive committees of the councils, which formed the basis of the later Bolshevik party system in Russia. They advocated the widest democracy in the councils. During the German Revolution, Liebknecht, Luxemburg and the Spartakusbund fought for a strong, centralised, unitary Communist Party and for a strong, centralised Workers’ International.\n\nDuring the German Revolution, the Spartakusbund launched a number of armed actions, including the demonstration on 1 May 1919 in Berlin, the struggle for the defence of the first revolutionary district, the struggle against counter-revolutionary General Walther von Lüttwitz, the attack on the building of the Central Executive Committee in Berlin, and the struggle against the reactionary forces of Kapp in March 1921. Liebknecht and Luxemburg were both seriously injured during these struggles. Liebknecht was seriously injured in the attack on the Central Executive Committee of Berlin and died on 15 January 1919. Luxemburg was seriously injured in the Kapp putsch of March 1921 and died on 15 January 1919.