"Most of the novels I enjoy are focused on romance, in whatever form it may come. I believe that there’s something for everyone to enjoy, as the author does such a great job of portraying the characters in all their strengths and flaws. Sometimes they go a little over the top with the angst, and it isn’t very realistic, but I understand why. There are authors who never experience any type of conflict with their characters, and the books just feel very one dimensional. Some books can have some really crappy endings, but I have learned to stay away from books that end with the couple together and happy but someone was murdered or something along those lines. I don’t care for books that have the couple separated, but they’ll come back together in the end.\n\nWhat I want in a good romance book is a good, if not a great, ending that makes me feel good, no matter what happens to the characters. As I mentioned earlier, I don’t like books that end in tragedy, and they usually do end in tragedy. There are some that aren’t too tragic, but they just aren’t the endings that I like. This is where the author’s job becomes very difficult. They have to give the reader a reason to feel the way they want them to feel about the characters. If they feel bad, they’ve done their job. If they feel happy, they’ve done their job. As a reader, I’m not looking to be outraged, nor am I looking to be happy. I’m just looking for something that makes me feel.\n\nOn the flip side of that, I know a lot of people don’t want to be emotionally manipulated. They just want to read a book and enjoy it. They don’t want to be forced to feel one way or another. They want to feel neutral. Neutral, to me, is a huge accomplishment in a romance novel. To me, a romance novel has to be able to get a person, even if they don’t think it will, to feel something for the characters. In most books, people want to know how they can make a particular character do what they want them to do. In a romance novel, that’s the main character. They want to know how they can make the characters fall in love, because they see themselves in one or both of them. How would they do it? How would they fix it?\n\nThat is what a reader does when they read a romance novel. They want to know how to fix the problems that the characters have. This is why the ending is so important. It has to make the reader happy, but not to the point where they roll their eyes or feel like they were taken for a ride. I have a great example. In the movie Now and Then, a woman tells her daughter that she is happy. When her daughter tells her that she is, too, she tells her that it’s because they’re both lying. They don’t want to make each other sad, so they’re lying to each other. This is the exact thing that happens in a lot of romance novels, in my opinion. They’re trying to make the readers feel good, but in the process they’re lying. To me, the ending has to make the reader feel what the author was trying to make them feel, not what they want them to feel.\n\nI’m not saying that the book has to end the way I want it to. What I’m saying is that I want the author to be honest. I want them to give me a believable ending that isn’t just thrown together so that they can end the book. I want the ending to mean something, and I think that’s what most readers want. Most people like to be happy, and a good book will give them that. The ending has to be good enough that the reader doesn’t feel like they wasted their time, but also good enough that they’re not completely disappointed. They have to be happy with the story, even if it wasn’t exactly what they wanted.\n\nWhat are some of your favorite romance book endings?