Massacre of Saint Bartholomew's Eve\n\nThe Massacre of St. Bartholomew's Eve ("La Saint-Barthélemy", French for Saint Bartholomew's Eve), also known as the Bartholomew's Day Massacre in English, was a targeted group of assassinations and a wave of Catholic mob violence, directed against the Huguenots (French Calvinists) during the reign of King Charles IX of France, in August 1572.\n\nOver half of the 30,000-strong Huguenot population of Paris was killed, as well as thousands of others through the French Kingdom. The massacre also marked a point in the French Wars of Religion.\n\nThe massacre started on the night of 23–24 August 1572, two days after the attempted assassination of Admiral Gaspard de Coligny, the military and political leader of the Huguenots. The assassin, François Ravaillac, took advantage of the chaos and confusion as the Parisian mob spilled out of the "Poisoned Candle" inn, killing three of Coligny's bodyguards and wounding the admiral before being subdued.\n\nThe king ordered the killing of a group of Huguenot leaders, including Coligny, and the massacre spread throughout Paris. Lasting several weeks, the massacre expanded outward to other urban centres and the countryside.\n\nThe massacre marked a turning point in the French Wars of Religion. The Huguenot political movement was crippled by the loss of many of its prominent aristocratic leaders, as well as many re-conversions by the rank and file, and the Huguenots' weakening military position in the following years.\n\nWith a detailed knowledge of the court at the time of the massacre, the author Victor Hugo provides a classic description of the events, and of the general massacre, in his novel "The Hunchback of Notre Dame".\n\nAs with all the religious wars or massacres of the 16th century, the massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day was a calculated military action with premeditation and escalation in an atmosphere of collective violence and hysteria. A precedent for the massacres can be found in the "Nordic bloodbath" (1520), when the government of Copenhagen, Denmark, killed between 5,000 and 11,000 people at the urging of the local Lutheran clergy. The king, who had hesitated to act against the Huguenots, the "Famille Sante", died within days of the assassination of Coligny, himself allegedly a target of the plot.\n\nHistorians have found that Henry III, Duke of Guise, who had sent letters to the pope encouraging him to wipe out the Huguenots, may have been an instigator of the attack. In a letter to the Cardinal of Lorraine, the duke complained that the pope had been too weak. The cardinal then used his influence with the king to organize the massacre. This plan may have been ultimately inspired by Charles IX's mother, Catherine de' Medici, who according to a contemporary source (the Venetian Giorgio Varistori) instructed the Duke of Guise and the Constable de Montmorency to organize the murders:\n\n"to maintain the honour of the prince and the State, and to keep the people of this kind from growing too numerous."\n\nSome historians have viewed the subsequent escalation of the French Wars of Religion as a deliberate plot by Catherine de' Medici, who was consistent in her policy of strengthening the political and military position of her son, King Charles IX. Having failed to grasp the theological issues that drove his mother, Queen Margaret, King Charles IX, at the suggestion of his adviser, Cardinal Richelieu, created the Colloquy of Poissy (1561), in which French Protestants and Catholics met in an attempt to reach consensus on doctrine. With the Peace of Saint-Germain (1562), however, the wars erupted again. This policy was not only financially costly, but also ineffective against the Huguenots. In the three-year period following the Peace of Saint-Germain, the Huguenots made considerable political and military gains. The French Huguenots were able to defeat several royal armies between 1567 and 1570.\n\nAlthough the Huguenot political movement was powerful and a significant portion of the French aristocracy was allied with it, the leadership of Henry of Navarre remained uncertain.\n\nAt the court of Catherine de' Medici, Henry of Navarre, leader of the Huguenots, was presented to the court by his uncle, the Cardinal of Lorraine. In 1570, the Medici were much weaker than they had been, as Catherine de' Medici suffered from a debilitating illness and her son and heir, Charles IX, was unpopular. A plot to assassinate Charles and restore the entire power to the House of Medici was discovered, but it failed in the first attempt on 24 April 1570. However, the second attempt on 22 August 1572 was successful. While Catherine was dying, the young king acted decisively. He called for his uncle, Charles of Guise, to be killed, and attempted to secure the military leadership of the Huguenots for his own brother, Henry, Duke of Anjou.\n\nOn 23 August, Henry of Guise was murdered in his sleep by a monk. Anne de Montmorency, another leader of the Huguenots, was also targeted. The monk gave the assassin a dagger and told him to"