"So i think that whoever is in control of communications for Theros Block should be fired. We are one week into the pre-release and this is how we have been treated thus far:\n\nThere has been no word on release dates for anything.\n\nIt has been confirmed that "Theros, Master's Edition, and Born of the Gods" will be the formats for the first PTQ season, and the only ones for the first year. The public reaction has been basically "WTF?"\n\nSo my question to Wizards is:\n\nWhat the hell were you thinking? Why would you do something so stupid? The current format is hardly stale, and yet you have already killed it with the same idiotic move that killed Extended, a move that should have been the first thing on your agenda. This move just keeps getting more and more idiotic, if that is even possible.\n\nIf the goal was to "shake things up" then why are you making things more stale? If anything, now is the time to switch to Modern, since Modern is no longer associated with Standard, but now Modern is associated with Extended!\n\nWhat about doing a limited release first? It would have been a fun way to get people excited about the new sets, and also an awesome way to sell sets.\n\nWhat about announcing the format of the PTQs at the same time you announce the pre-release dates? I know I would have enjoyed it more if I knew going into the pre-release what format I would be playing in a year's time.\n\nWhat is the point of a format that you only get to play for a year? That is not a format!\n\nThe reaction from the community was overwhelming negative. When was the last time Wizards did something that so united the community against it?\n\nWhat a waste of money, to do something so stupid. And you wasted the money of all of your loyal players who buy every set without fail, without even asking us. You could have asked us what we wanted. You could have asked us if we wanted a limited format in the block. You could have asked us what we thought about your ideas for the formats of the PTQs. You could have asked us if we liked the idea of an "only-year" format. You could have even asked us what we thought about a format that overlapped with the end of the previous one.\n\nInstead you did something that we hate without even asking us if we wanted it. I know that we would have told you "NO!"\n\nInstead, you have burned bridges and upset your customers. I know that I, for one, will never ever ever ever buy another pre-release pack. The format is absolutely irrelevant to me. I don't care what the format is, I only care that it is fun. I am happy with any format. I thought it was fun to play Modern Masters, and I think it would be fun to play Standard Masters. I would play anything you come up with. I just don't want to buy a pre-release pack if you are going to take away my format.\n\nWizards, please, listen to your community. We are your customers. You cannot afford to have us hate you. When you do things like this, you are alienating us. The most popular format at the pre-release was casual play, the people who do not care about the PTQs and only care about the draft. Wizards, listen to us! You are killing your brand!\n\nWe do not want to hate you. We love Magic. We have loved it for years, and have never regretted a single purchase. We want to keep loving it. We do not want to hate you. Please do not do this again. Do not alienate your loyal customers.\n\nPlease, Wizards, give us back our formats.