Read an Excerpt\n\nPoisoned Chalice\n\nWarhammer 40,000\n\nBlack Library\n\nCopyright © 2005\n\nWarhammer 40,000\n\nAll right reserved.\n\nISBN: 1-84416-435-6\n\nChapter One\n\nThe Red Rage\n\nThe Cadian Gate is perhaps the most vital defensive point of the Imperium of Man. The system of Cadian, in the Segmentum Obscurus, has been a bastion against the horrors of the Eye of Terror for millennia. Stretching like a great curved sword from the northern rim of the Eye of Terror to the world of Cadia, the Cadian Gate marks the dividing line between the Eye and the rest of the galaxy. It is through the Cadian Gate that the armies of the Imperium have made their stand, and it is here that the forces of the Traitor Legions and the Forces of Chaos make their bid for the prize of Terra. The Cadians are proud and have a reputation for being implacable in defence. This is not only true of the soldiers, but also of the population of the world of Cadia itself. The people of Cadia, through their history, have become renowned for their staunchness and refusal to bend or give way. It is a sign of their fighting spirit that when the Ork Warlord Ghazghkull Mag Uruk Thraka was driven off Cadia in 946.45.M41, the Cadian High Command paid an Ork warband to make sure Ghazghkull's armada departed the system, rather than having them blasted out of the stars. The Imperial fleet refused to go into battle against the Space Orks unless Ghazghkull had left the system first.\n\nBut Ghazghkull is far from the most deadly enemy Cadia has faced. Even before the Fall of Cadia, the Cadian Gate had been a place of bloodshed and horror. After the Horus Heresy, a great fleet of Traitor warships, remnants of the broken Imperial forces fleeing the destruction of the battles at Terra and on the world of Isstvan V, had been caught in the Cadian System. The flight of the survivors of the shattered battlefleets had been aided by the actions of the frigate Eisenstein, but when the Eisenstein, after a narrow escape from the forces of Chaos, reached Cadia and the Imperial forces under the command of the newly promoted Lord Solar Macharius, the armada had been close to destruction. The forces of Chaos had been driven off, but the Battle of the Cadian System had been long and bloody.\n\nWhen Macharius was ready to move on to the Isstvan System, the massive armada moved out, but the infighting amongst the Traitor Legions left the survivors a shadow of their former selves. Macharius's armada was ready for battle. Victory followed victory as the Imperium took back all of the Traitor-held worlds in the Isstvan System and recovered the scattered and shattered remnants of the Sons of Horus. Once more, it seemed that the power of the Legions was broken and that the Legiones Astartes would soon be a thing of the past. The victory of the Cadian Gate was of enormous importance.\n\nThe Chaos hordes were driven back to the Eye of Terror. Once more, the warp storms began to abate and, gradually, a period of relative calm descended. Once more, the defenders of the Cadian Gate breathed easily and rejoiced.\n\nIt is to the Cadian Gate that those humans of the Imperium who are under a curse and who live in the Eye of Terror are sent. This curse comes from the power of Chaos itself. It infects the very minds of those who oppose the great Traitor Legions. Soon, the will of the servant of Chaos is bent to the will of the Dark Gods. Soon, the battle is over, and the servant is one of the servants of Chaos. This is the fate of many who find themselves on the fringes of the Eye of Terror, where a mysterious power of Chaos lingers, and where the empyrean energy of the Immaterium intrudes into the physical universe. The curse is transmitted through the aura of those who have been touched by Chaos, or who have travelled to the Eye of Terror in the form of a Chaos space marine. This curse can also be transmitted by the touch of a Chaotic daemon, or through psychic powers. Once a human has received the curse, there is no hope for redemption. They have doomed themselves.\n\nThe majority of the people who live in the Eye of Terror are cursed with a single-minded desire to do harm to all that opposes them. In those who have been affected by Chaos, this becomes the uncontrollable urge to hurt and to kill, and this urge will lead the individual to seek out the opposing army and take part in the fighting. Some people, though, are struck by a second curse, which will lead them to seek out their own side. If a person should seek to betray his own army, and turn it to Chaos, then the curse grows in power. The Chaos Gods will reward such a person by granting him a measure of their power, and they will make him a daemon, a Daemon Prince, the servant of Chaos and a terrible opponent. It is a dark path to the darkness, but it is one that many humans walk, and one that many will go on to repeat until they are strong enough to destroy their own kind.\n\nOf course, the Daemon Princes who have been formed by this process are the greatest warriors"