"Tuesday, November 19, 2016\n\nAs we approach Thanksgiving, the political temperature in the US is rising and we are beginning to see significant protest movements in a number of states against the incoming President-elect Donald Trump.\n\nSuch protest activity is relatively commonplace in the US and is not surprising given that some of the proposed policy positions that Mr. Trump has put forward, such as building a wall on the border with Mexico or restricting immigration from some countries, are controversial. What is more surprising, and more disturbing, is the number of hate incidents that are being reported across the country, especially in the last two weeks.\n\nIn many ways these hate incidents are similar to what we have seen after other elections and in some cases there are clear political connections. For example, when a KKK rally took place in South Carolina a week after the election, a group of students began marching with them. Similarly, at a University of Mississippi protest, a former mayor was on hand with the KKK to support the protesters and he was later charged with assaulting a student reporter.\n\nPerhaps the most disturbing hate incident to date occurred in New York on Friday. In the days after the election, a private Facebook group titled “Torch the City,” which included over 3,000 members, had called for a rally on the streets of the city on the following day. The rally was to start at a subway station on the West Side of Manhattan and then proceed to Trump Tower. “Fascist President-Elect Donald Trump” and “Kill Trump” posters were among the statements on the Facebook page.\n\nThere were reports that some people at the rally were armed with metal poles and baseball bats. In a video posted to YouTube, one man is seen making a Nazi salute as he is asked about his anti-Semitic tattoo.\n\nIn the end, the rally appeared to be a damp squib, with about 400 people reportedly in attendance. Nonetheless, its small scale is likely to be overshadowed by the publicity generated by the group and its statements.\n\nThe incident is one of many reported across the country and they are undoubtedly on the increase. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors extremist organizations and hate crimes, has said that it has received over 200 reports of such incidents since the election. This number includes both individual incidents as well as general expressions of support for the President-elect. The incidents range from personal attacks to acts of property destruction, with particular focus on members of the LGBT community and Muslims.\n\nThere have also been isolated incidents of harassment or violence aimed at African Americans, who are already subject to routine discrimination. For example, on the day after the election, two brothers were attacked and beaten by a group of white men as they walked down the street in Boston, yelling, “You voted Trump”. Also, in Boston, the day after the election, a white man who had verbally abused a Latino man on the bus was attacked by other passengers.\n\nWhile some have condemned the hate incidents, others have defended them as “free speech.” It remains to be seen how the President-elect will react. Mr. Trump had previously spoken out against the supporters of the KKK during his campaign. More recently, he has tweeted a condemnation of hate crime and an assurance to the LGBT community that he will do his best for them. Nevertheless, the rhetoric of his campaign focused on uniting a divided country and he has indicated that he will look to bring people together in his Administration.\n\nWe are only three weeks into this new political world and many more chapters have yet to be written. As always, employers should stay vigilant about potential discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in their workplaces.\n\nRobert M. Brown\n\nNovember 18, 2016