Share Pinterest\n\nEmail\n\nLet's try to clear something up once and for all: No, the Mercedes-AMG C63 is not underpowered, or too expensive, or a step down from the C63 S. It's simply the C63 you buy if you aren't all that interested in hard driving. It's still an excellent sports sedan, but it's not a monster.\n\nThink of the C63 as the love child of a Honda Accord and a Porsche 911. That's a weird sentence, but it sums up this car perfectly: This is an old-school luxury sedan that can go around corners but would be just as happy plowing through rainstorms as getting down on a dance floor. It has an engine that you would expect in a performance car but can also be ordered with a seven-speed automatic transmission.\n\nWe spent a week with the 2017 Mercedes-AMG C63 S Coupe (and believe us, we were just as confused by that name as you are) and the one thing we know for sure is that this car makes us smile. It's not a high-strung, fuel-frugal rocket. It's just a car that makes us happy to be driving.\n\n"It's a sedan!" you might say. "You're not supposed to like it!"\n\nReally? Let's try this: Remember the BMW M5? That super-sedan that offered everything from a 500-hp twin-turbo inline six to a 5.0-liter V8 to a 7.0-liter V12? Sure, they all had monstrous power, but none of them made us smile.\n\nThis AMG makes us smile.\n\nThis is the same basic engine that was offered in the C63 S, but the C63 uses the Mercedes-AMG 4.0-liter V8 that makes 469 hp and 465 lb-ft of torque, whereas the C63 S uses the hand-built AMG 4.0-liter V8 that has two turbochargers and is rated at 503 hp and 516 lb-ft of torque.\n\nThat's still plenty for most of us, but it also means that the C63 is heavier and a little slower. The coupe we tested had a seven-speed automatic transmission, which is a shame, but we're happy to report that the eight-speed transmission in the sedan is still a very good gearbox, with quick, precise shifts.\n\nThe engine has the old-school AMG whine to it, but there's no shortage of low-end torque, and it's so smooth that we didn't have to shift much during our test drive. All of this made for plenty of smiles, even though we can't say we would be in a hurry to buy the car if we had a family. With an EPA rating of 17 mpg city and 24 mpg highway, it's the thirstiest member of the AMG family.\n\n"It's so smooth that we didn't have to shift much during our test drive."\n\nThat's because the suspension in the C63 isn't tuned for serious cornering. It's too soft. It was so soft, in fact, that we thought we had accidentally picked up a C43 Coupe.\n\nIt's great for cruising on a Sunday morning, and the grip is there for high-speed cornering if you want it, but the suspension setup feels like it's more interested in keeping the car's occupants comfy and the ride quiet than it is in hard driving.\n\nThe C63 Coupe we tested had the Performance Package, which adds bigger wheels and tires, more aggressive suspension tuning and improved steering, but it was still too soft for us. The only people we can see who might be interested in the C63 Coupe are those who want to make it more like the C63 S.\n\n"The only people we can see who might be interested in the C63 Coupe are those who want to make it more like the C63 S."\n\nSo the coupe was a bit disappointing, but the sedan is a very impressive car. It's not as fast as the C63"