A human being is a part of the whole, called by us "Universe," a part limited in time and space. He experiences himself, his thoughts and feelings as something separated from the rest - a kind of optical delusion of his consciousness. The striving to free oneself from this delusion is the one issue of true religion. Not to nourish the delusion but to try to overcome it is the way to reach the attainable measure of peace of mind.\n\nAlbert Einstein (1938)\n\nWho would have thought that the the famous scientist, whose ideas took a leap of imagination that seemed to defy common sense, had so much wisdom to share.\n\nEinstein's wisdom, delivered in a simple, direct manner, is of a philosophical nature. And yet, as we have seen, his wisdom is based on a scientific perspective, not a philosophical one. It is a perspective that, as we shall see, stands in contrast to the beliefs of the average person.\n\nThe ultimate source of Einstein's wisdom is his sense of awe. He speaks of being in awe of what he observed in nature, as if these observations of nature had moved him to the core of his being. But this awe was not the end of the matter for Einstein. He does not speak of being in awe and then simply stop and say: "What a wondrous world it is." Rather, he looks to this sense of awe as a source of inspiration to do more.\n\nEinstein's wisdom is the result of a personal approach to understanding and the sense of awe that this approach has produced. It is, therefore, both a personal and a shared source of wisdom. The person sharing this wisdom is not speaking on behalf of some outside authority, like a philosopher or a scientist. His wisdom is simply the result of a personal quest, not a more generalized, impersonal, public investigation.\n\nEinstein did not discover his wisdom by himself. He spoke about his awe at the "dignity" of nature, by which he meant that the world of nature is majestic, not cheap. Einstein was aware of the sense of awe that his discoveries had evoked in him and he wished to share this feeling with others. In this way, Einstein's wisdom was, at its roots, a shared resource, because the more people who can feel and express awe at the majesty of nature, the better it is for all of us.\n\nIt is as though Einstein had an innate wisdom that he wished to share with others, and as though he felt compelled to do so. Einstein's quest for wisdom was not an abstract exercise in which he wished to understand nature or the meaning of life. Rather, Einstein was driven by a need to share his insights. As the physicist Stephen Hawking has pointed out, the very nature of the scientific enterprise is a social activity, and this is as true of Einstein as it is of Hawking himself.\n\nLike Hawking, Einstein had the good fortune of being born into a social context that could support his quest for wisdom. He lived in an environment in which he was exposed to an intellectual culture that had been nourished by many philosophers who were also his contemporaries. He could, therefore, both draw from the wisdom of his predecessors and challenge them by articulating the insights that he had achieved.\n\nIn addition, the new physics that he helped to develop has spawned many technologies that have radically transformed our understanding of the world and has introduced new scientific disciplines, such as quantum physics, that have enriched our understanding of nature. Our scientific knowledge has become a shared resource that can be used as a basis for developing a new kind of wisdom, one that does not exist in the history of human thought before the twentieth century.\n\nAs we can see, the search for wisdom and the sharing of wisdom are based on a wide array of factors. To create a context that will allow for the growth of a new kind of wisdom, one that can benefit the common good of humanity, it is necessary to invest in science and in a new philosophical perspective.\n\nIn other words, a new kind of wisdom can only arise as the result of a new synthesis, one that links scientific knowledge with a philosophical perspective. It is this new synthesis that will be explored in the final chapter of this book.