From the February 2018 Desktop News | Imagine a book that’s at the forefront of medical research. A book that holds the promise of a cure for diabetes. A book that can end cardiovascular disease. A book that just might alter our DNA to provide an extra seven years of life.\n\nIt exists, and you can access it in seconds from your own desk. We’re talking about the Human Genome Project. And thanks to a University of Chicago (UCH_026174) and University of Chicago Medicine release, you can download it for free.\n\nThe project was launched in 1990 and finished in 2003. It started as a proposal by the National Institutes of Health and, by the time it ended, it had cost $3 billion. But for nearly two decades, it was the single most important medical project in the world.\n\nYou can read the project’s final report on the NIH website, but if you want more details about the genes it identified, you can use the National Center for Biotechnology Information’s website. It has many details about the project, but its real strength is the list of the 9 million genes it identified. It’s here, and it’s updated every time the scientific community publishes a new gene.\n\nRight now, that’s happening all the time.\n\nAs the Washington Post’s Rachel Feltman notes, we’re in a golden age of genetics research. The field has come a long way in a short time. In 1991, when the Human Genome Project started, researchers thought we’d find 100,000 genes. Instead, we found 19,000. Feltman writes, “Today, the most up-to-date figure is 21,000, although researchers think there are likely to be more.”\n\nIf you look through the list of genes, you’ll see that it’s broken into many parts. Each part is a chromosome. You can also access each chromosome in its entirety, but there are millions of genes, so the result will be too big to view. That’s why the National Center for Biotechnology Information breaks the chromosomes into smaller pieces.\n\nSome of those parts have less than 100 genes. Others have more than 100,000.\n\nThat’s just the beginning. Not only is the list of genes broken into pieces, but each gene is also listed as an accession number. When it was published, the project was stored on computers and every part of it had its own identifier. The national center has taken that information and made it searchable. So if you find a gene you want to know more about, you can find that information in seconds.\n\nHere’s another example. One of the interesting findings of the Human Genome Project is that genes that carry the instructions to make blue eyes and brown eyes are very close to one another. We don’t know why.\n\nBut the map of those two genes, in the national center’s searchable database, tells us the exact location of those genes.\n\nIt’s not just blue eyes. The national center has a map for most genetic traits you can think of.\n\nIf you want to learn about a gene and what it does, you can do so in seconds.\n\nThe National Center for Biotechnology Information has been around for a long time. It was established in 1988 to support biomedical science. And as you can see, it’s one of the most important medical resources you can access.\n\nAnd it’s free.