"An industrial materials company based in Missouri has agreed to pay a $200,000 penalty to resolve allegations that it violated the Clean Water Act and an associated Consent Decree. Alkali Specialties LLC, a subsidiary of the Louisiana-based Alkali Specialties Group, entered into the settlement agreement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).\n\nThe settlement agreement states that Alkali Specialties did not properly manage hazardous wastes generated from the company’s glass manufacturing operations, as agreed upon in a 2008 Consent Decree. The violations include failure to properly characterize and treat wastewater and contamination of water supplies and fish in two states. In one case, the company dumped wastewater from a high pressure alkaline cleaning process into a manhole, which drained into a stormwater ditch that fed into a drainage ditch connected to a local stream. EPA’s investigation discovered fish die-offs and contamination of the local water supply.\n\n“Properly treating industrial wastewater is not optional,” said EPA Regional Administrator Shawn M. Garvin. “The owners and operators of Alkali Specialties could have avoided these serious violations by having good management practices in place to make sure that wastewater containing hazardous chemicals was safely and properly treated.”\n\nThe company is required to have an EPA-approved management plan in place to ensure proper treatment of the company’s wastewater. A list of the company’s manufacturing activities and associated wastewater characteristics must also be included in the plan. The company also must pay a $5,000 civil penalty.\n\nThe Consent Decree requires Alkali Specialties to treat wastewater generated by its glass manufacturing processes through a municipal wastewater treatment system or industrial wastewater treatment system. The company is required to install monitoring devices and submit reports that track how the company is meeting the Decree’s requirements.\n\nAlkali Specialties operates glass manufacturing facilities in Wisconsin, Missouri, and Virginia.