The actual intent of the changes in the UK’s regulation and taxation of ISAs and pensions has become muddled in translation.\n\nThe UK’s changes in pension taxation may well reduce your contributions.\n\nThe investment management industry’s drive to promote personal pension products as an alternative to ISAs may have got a little over excited.\n\nFirstly, the changes that the UK government has made to the regulation of pensions and ISAs has not in fact reduced the level of tax relief on ISAs. It has however changed the way in which tax relief on contributions to personal pensions is calculated.\n\nThe current situation, whereby the actual value of the tax relief received on the sum of a pension contribution, as opposed to the rate of relief, is included in the calculation of income tax, has led to some confusion.\n\nThere is a belief that the relief that is received on the sum of a pension contribution is reduced to 10 per cent and therefore is not as good as the relief received on ISAs, where the actual value of the relief is not included in the calculation of income tax.\n\nThis misunderstanding may well have led to some people contributing to ISAs rather than pensions in order to maximise tax relief.\n\nIn addition, if the actual value of the tax relief received on the sum of a pension contribution is used as a deduction from the gross amount of the pension contribution then the level of relief has not changed at all. The actual value of the relief received on the sum of a pension contribution in the income tax calculation has increased in line with the amount of gross income that is subject to tax relief.\n\nFor example, a gross contribution of £10,000 would result in an actual tax relief of £7,500 under the current arrangements (the gross contribution is grossed up by 50 per cent to give the net pension contribution of £7,500).\n\nUnder the new arrangements, the gross contribution would remain at £10,000, but the actual tax relief received on the sum of a pension contribution would be £7,000. The relief on the actual value of the pension contribution is not reduced to 10 per cent.\n\nThe amount of gross income that is subject to tax relief is now £40,000. If you earned this amount in income before your pension contributions, then the actual tax relief on the sum of the pension contribution would be £30,000, rather than £7,500.\n\nWhat has changed is the way in which the actual tax relief received on the sum of a pension contribution is calculated. The net pension contribution (the amount actually deducted from the gross income) will no longer be grossed up to produce the actual tax relief received on the sum of the pension contribution.\n\nTherefore, the actual tax relief received on the sum of a pension contribution will always be lower than the actual tax relief received on the actual value of a pension contribution.\n\nIt is important to note that it is not the rate of relief that is affected. It is the actual value of the relief that is reduced. The rate of relief is not affected.\n\nPension contributions are still exempt from tax, although the amount of income that is excluded from tax is less than it would have been if the relief was given on the actual value of the pension contribution.\n\nSecondly, the changes to the regulation of pensions and ISAs have not increased the level of tax relief on pensions. The actual level of tax relief on pensions has not changed. The maximum level of tax relief is still 40 per cent.\n\nThe regulation of pensions has changed. Under the new rules, the maximum amount that can be paid into a pension pot, subject to tax relief, is £1.8 million. The maximum amount that can be paid into an ISA, subject to tax relief, is £7,000.\n\nBoth the maximum contribution level of pensions and ISAs has increased, but the maximum tax relief that can be obtained on both types of products is the same.\n\nIf you have already opened a pension plan, then you can only increase the contribution amount by £2,880 per year. Any extra contribution beyond the annual limit will not be eligible for tax relief. The full value of the contribution, regardless of how much it is, will have to be paid from your gross income.\n\nThe actual level of tax relief on ISAs has not changed. The maximum amount of ISA contributions that can be paid into an ISA in any tax year is £7,000. This has not changed. Any amount that is paid into an ISA in excess of this amount will not be eligible for tax relief. The full value of the contribution, regardless of how much it is, will have to be paid from your gross income.\n\nSo in summary, the actual level of tax relief on ISAs has not changed. The maximum amount that can be paid into an ISA, subject to tax relief, is £7,000.\n\nThe actual"