Andromeda (software)\n\nAndromeda was a multi-user online software system which allowed users to interact and play games over a dial-up network. It ran on a number of home computer systems in the early to mid-1980s, and has been compared to other online services such as The Source and Compunet. It ceased operation in 1986, but spawned a number of related projects.\n\nAndromeda was written by Steve Davies, a computer enthusiast and owner of Andromeda Computing. Andromeda operated in the UK from 1982 to 1986, initially running on the ZX Spectrum and later the ZX Spectrum +2. It was also available for the Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64, Atari 8-bit family, Acorn Atom, BBC Micro, MSX and Oric-1. As of mid-1985, Andromeda had over 1000 members and 30,000 players.\n\nAndromeda was unusual at the time in that it was a dial-up service, with the modem connected to a telephone line. The software itself, which ran from the floppy disk, could be loaded from the keyboard or a tape recorder. Users would call a single telephone number (the user id) which was connected to the Andromeda server and then select the appropriate server on which to run the game or application. Users could then enter their own user id and password and, if allowed, interact with the application.\n\nA later version of Andromeda allowed a dedicated home computer to be connected to the Andromeda system and access games, and transfer data between the home computer and the Andromeda server. The home computer ran a front-end program which was loaded from the floppy disk and displayed on the television or monitor, and allowed access to the Andromeda server.\n\nAlthough Andromeda was primarily a gaming system, it also ran a number of business applications, such as customer databases and word processing, which allowed users to save their work to the Andromeda server. Users could then return to their work later.\n\nThe Andromeda Computing office was also a shop, selling the home computer hardware and software required to use the system, as well as peripheral equipment such as the dedicated Andromeda Link, and a range of hardware to connect these computers to the network.\n\nA number of "official" Andromeda games and applications were developed for the system, and many independent and homemade applications were also available. Andromeda's commercial software range included the Bitz product range of games, distributed by Andromeda in cassette tape format. In addition to the commercial games, a number of freeware games and applications were available, including arcade conversions, puzzle games and games in the adventure genre.\n\nDuring its operation, Andromeda Computing Ltd had a well-established network of developers, users and associated businesses. An internal bulletin board system allowed members of the public to join the system. This included an area for users to exchange software and files with each other, and the facility to submit user-written software and applications for distribution.\n\n\n