CALCUTTA, March 9— The daughter of an Indian freedom fighter who died recently in a Calcutta hospital may never find out the cause of her father's death because the hospital has no autopsy facility and the family has no money to send his body to another hospital.\n\nA.B. Ray, a professor of economics at Calcutta University, died last Thursday in Calcutta Medical College Hospital after a long battle with pneumonia.\n\n''I am running from pillar to post to try and get a post mortem,'' said Mrs. Ray, whose husband is also a professor of economics at Calcutta University. ''My father was very much against autopsy and it was his express wish not to have it performed.'' Ray A.B. Ray, 82, was born on the campus of Presidency College, one of the oldest seats of higher education in India. He came from a wealthy and cultured family and had gone abroad to study economics in London.\n\nOn his return he became a prominent figure in Calcutta's intellectual and literary circles, editing newspapers and translating the ''Futurology'' series of lectures by the great French writer Andre Malraux.\n\nHe was an adviser to Indira Gandhi in the early days of her political career. He served in Parliament as a member of the Congress Party until his retirement from active politics in 1976.\n\nHe was admitted to Calcutta Medical College Hospital on Feb. 4, and received treatment in the hospital's intensive care unit. His condition gradually deteriorated and he died last Thursday.\n\nHis daughter, Dr. Suchitra Ray, said she was not at all satisfied with the treatment her father received in the hospital and thought that medical staff had not done their job properly.\n\nShe said that her father had been suffering from pneumonia for three years and that he had been given an injection a few days before he was admitted to the hospital.\n\n''My father was extremely allergic to penicillin,'' she said. ''Injecting him with penicillin at a time when he was in a very bad condition was in my opinion a highly irresponsible act.''\n\nThe doctor in charge of the intensive care unit, Dr. Abhijit Gupta, said that he could not discuss individual cases but that he had had no complaints about the treatment of Mr. Ray.\n\n''We did all we could,'' he said. ''It was very sad. His condition was very grave. It was a heart attack that killed him.''