"Under an order signed Friday by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), federally funded clinics must consider the “conscience rights” of health care providers when offering treatment. Under the rule, doctors and nurses can claim religious or moral objections and deny patients reproductive health care services such as birth control and hormone replacement therapy.\n\nThe rule expands an earlier policy created under the Bush administration, which had barred clinics and hospitals that receive federal funding from discriminating against providers who refuse to participate in abortion procedures or “otherwise facilitate” abortions.\n\nThe Trump administration has aggressively expanded these so-called conscience protections. HHS has already reversed Obama-era rules that prevented federally funded foster care and adoption agencies from discriminating against same-sex couples and opened the door for federal workers to refuse to serve transgender people. The agency is also working to give health care workers the right to refuse transgender patients in state-funded health care programs.\n\n“The rights of conscience are already protected,” Roger Severino, director of the HHS Office of Civil Rights, told reporters on a call Friday. “We are adding clarity, we are not changing the policy at all.”\n\nNancy Northup, president and CEO of the Center for Reproductive Rights, said in a statement that the new rule “would enshrine a right to discriminate in federal law.”\n\n“It’s part of an alarming trend by the Trump administration to willfully ignore the healthcare needs of women and transgender people,” she said.\n\nNARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse Hogue accused the Trump administration of waging “a war on science, women, our well-being, and our health care.”\n\n“If a doctor or nurse objects to a patient’s medical treatment — because they are women, LGBTQ, or otherwise — the doctor or nurse can deny them the care they seek,” Hogue said. “This move will put many women in harm’s way.”\n\nIn a statement, the Department of Health and Human Services said the rule would “build upon the vital work” of the original regulation, which was challenged by a lawsuit filed by California. The state argued that the Bush-era policy violated federal anti-discrimination law and the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause, which prohibits laws that favor one religion over another.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed, ruling in 2016 that federal law did not allow “religiously motivated denials of service by medical providers who accept and receive government funding.” The three-judge panel sent the case back to the district court to work out a settlement between the parties. California and the federal government reached a deal in July 2017 that gave doctors and nurses more latitude to object to treatment but did not expand the list of services.\n\nFriday’s announcement is the Trump administration’s response to California’s lawsuit. Under the new rule, doctors and nurses in California and other states that receive federal funding to provide health care would be allowed to refuse to provide reproductive services and treatment for gender transition.\n\nNurses and doctors at the more than 5,000 hospitals and clinics across the U.S. that provide family planning and reproductive health services receive federal funding. These programs include the Title X Family Planning Program, which serves 4 million people annually, and Medicaid, which is jointly funded by the state and federal government and provides health coverage to more than 70 million low-income people.\n\nIn Friday’s call with reporters, Severino said that these programs already have mechanisms in place to help patients obtain health care if a provider denies them treatment. “No one is forced to have an abortion,” Severino said. “This is a question of prioritizing government programs and where taxpayer money should be spent.”\n\nSeverino said the policy would not require doctors and nurses to participate in or perform procedures that violate their beliefs. “No one is forcing them to do anything that they don’t want to do,” he said.\n\nThe new rule could affect patients who live in rural areas, where there may not be another provider to serve them. And in some cases, women may be forced to travel hundreds of miles to obtain a procedure.