"\n\nRevocation of work permits and licenses for foreigners who are found guilty of drug trafficking\n\n<excerpt>\n\nTashkent, 24 April. UZBEKISTAN.RU – At a meeting of the Government, the Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev announced a new initiative of the Government, approved by the president of the country Islam Karimov, the “suspension” of work permits and licenses for foreigners who are found guilty of drug trafficking.\n\nThe Cabinet introduced a package of bills to amend the Administrative Offenses Code of the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Law on the Fight Against Narcotic Drugs. These documents envisage the possibility of suspending work permits and licenses for foreigners found guilty of drug trafficking, as well as the revocation of such permits and licenses.\n\nThis provision applies to individuals who, after a final conviction for drug trafficking, work on a freelance basis, providing services to a foreign firm, or who work in another country and hold a work permit for Uzbekistan.\n\nShavkat Mirziyoyev noted that the government intends to introduce amendments to other laws of the country to ensure that individuals, who are subject to administrative penalties for drug trafficking, are expelled from the country for at least five years.\n\n“Foreigners who have committed the crime of drug trafficking, must be permanently denied entry to our country. This measure is designed to create additional leverage in the fight against drug trafficking,” Mirziyoyev said.\n\nAccording to the prime minister, foreigners found guilty of drug trafficking can be denied entry to Uzbekistan for a term of at least five years.\n\nIn addition, he noted that a “complete purge” of drug trafficking will help to ensure that the government can attract foreign investments. “Our desire to attract foreign investments is very strong. As long as it is impossible to do without foreign labor. Therefore, it is very important that those who want to work here, should not do so with the aim of carrying out criminal activity. Therefore, such decisions are extremely important for us. The fact that we are able to raise this question, I believe, is a positive result. The president is aware of this, we discussed this question with the president, he said that we must not lag behind other countries in the fight against narcotics. The president of our country also pointed to the fact that we have already done a lot to fight against drug trafficking. And this is the most important thing,” Mirziyoyev said.\n\nRecall, the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan “On the Fight Against Narcotic Drugs”, signed by the President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov on March 24, 1995, came into force on May 7 of the same year. This law established and expanded the penalties for the legalization of drug-trafficking funds.