The few times I've had it with a sous vide steak, I've done the following:\n\nVacuum sealed (in an old Foodsaver model) a ribeye steak and took it out of the marinade before cooking. No frozen at all. The times I've done this, I've just sous vide it in a bag at 130F (see above for options).\n\nThis will probably not work as well for more than 1 steak unless you use a large, commercial Foodsaver and vacuum sealer.\n\nI just cook the steaks and store them in a tupperware container. I leave them in there for a few hours until they reach an internal temperature of 135F (my preferred temperature) and then take them out and put them in a plastic bag and store them in the fridge. They usually keep this way for a few days.\n\nOnce the steak has reached 135F, I remove it from the tupperware container and into a large ziplock bag. I press as much air out of the ziplock bag as possible (probably not totally necessary, but I'm cautious) and then put the ziplock bag in another ziplock bag with the rest of the steaks (the original storage bag, not the other ziplock bag). I leave this bag in the fridge for a few hours until I'm ready to cook the steak.\n\nOnce I'm ready to cook the steak, I usually let it come up to room temperature (in the bag). I then sear the steak in a cast iron skillet (a small one for a single steak, a larger one for more steaks). Once I'm done searing the steak, I remove it from the bag, let it rest a bit, and slice it. I have not had the issue of the juices from the steak leaking into the bag.\n\nEdit\n\nThis is probably more info than you want to deal with, but here is the initial reply I got on a similar post:\n\nI use VacMaster valve machines for sous vide. If you have a traditional FoodSaver type of machine, there is no issue with vacuum sealing it because you don't go past the water vapor pressure of air. The pressure in a food saver is high enough to prevent any vapor from entering the bag but if you really wanted to go crazy you could make a stainless steel bag that you put in the water bath. It's easy to remove a whole ribeye or strip loin and then just let it cool down for a few hours. When you're ready to cook it just let it come up to room temperature on the counter and then it's ready to go. I don't even put it in the fridge.\n\nI'm using the same technique that Alton Brown uses on his show.\n\nAn alternative way to do it would be to buy some sausage casings and then put the steak in a casing. When you are ready to cook it, tie off the end and put it in the water. This will prevent juices from leaking out.