Full Text:\n\nThe reductionist perspective on international relations has permeated the field, and through it, disciplinary discussions of international law. Most approaches to international law have focused on the individual norm, with the result that the law has become increasingly viewed as an instrument of state interests. The consequences of this are clear: International law has become weaker as a result of the overextension of its reach and power. The reductionist approach, with its focus on the state, has distorted our understanding of international law. We need to reevaluate how international law is practiced and developed and to broaden the perspective to allow for alternative approaches to international law and state practice. The articles collected here consider these issues.\n\n\n\n[ILLUSTRATION OMITTED]\n\n\n\nIn recent decades, international law has come under considerable criticism from scholars, diplomats, and lawyers alike. Most of the criticism focuses on the state and is often framed in terms of the norms, procedures, and institutions of international law. As a result, a very real problem has been neglected. The criticism overlooks the necessity of addressing international law on its own terms and how the concepts of international law inform and affect practice. International law cannot be understood simply through its normative system and the legal aspects of international affairs. To better understand international law, we need to look beyond the legal issues and beyond the state as well.\n\n\n\nInternational law as it is commonly understood deals with the legal aspects of the international system, the law of war, human rights, and international organizations. These traditional areas of international law are linked by a number of characteristics. One of these characteristics is the widely held view that international law is state-centric, focusing on the authority of states. A central element of international law is the rule of recognition, which has its origins in Roman Law. In order to be valid, the rule states that the rule of recognition, or law, must be recognized by the lawgiver (the state).\n\n\n\n[ILLUSTRATION OMITTED]\n\n\n\nFurthermore, the rule of recognition also stipulates that a person may have a "standing" to act as a party to the dispute only if he is authorized by the state, thus creating an exclusive focus on the relationship between the state and the law. In essence, this emphasis on the state--the recognition of its authority, its capacity to recognize and apply the law, and the way that authority is exercised--dictates the way international law is conceptualized and practiced. The assumptions about the authority of the state influence how international law is conceived and articulated. This understanding of international law is flawed because it focuses exclusively on the state. The exclusivity of the"