Start 'Em & Sit 'Em is the ultimate look at the weekly NFL matchups and how they'll affect your fantasy football team. All starts and sits are based on standard scoring leagues. Obvious fantasy starters like Cam Newton and Antonio Brown will not be featured. For your final lineup decisions, check our lineup rankings.\n\nSelect An Option... Quarterbacks Running Backs Wide Receivers Tight Ends Defense Kickers\n\nByes: Browns, Chiefs, Lions, Packers\n\nStart 'Em vs. Start of the Week - Aaron Rodgers vs. Tennessee Titans Rodgers has put up at least 25.8 fantasy points in all but one game this season, and he's been a top-five fantasy option in five of his last six starts. This week, he faces a Titans defense that has allowed two touchdown passes and one QB to throw for more than 300 yards in four of its last five games. vs. Andy Dalton vs. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Dalton has been on a roll of late, scoring at least 24 fantasy points in four of his last five games. He's also thrown multiple touchdown passes in four of his last five contests. A favorable matchup against the Buccaneers awaits this week, and this franchise has allowed an average of almost 22 fantasy points per game to quarterbacks on the road. vs. Kirk Cousins vs. San Francisco 49ers Cousins and the Redskins head into a Week 11 matchup against a 49ers team that has allowed at least 19 fantasy points to every quarterback it has faced this season. Cousins has averaged 23.5 fantasy points in his last three starts, and this game has the makings of a shootout between two of the NFC's top teams. vs. Derek Carr vs. Green Bay Packers Carr has been underwhelming in recent weeks, scoring a combined 25.1 fantasy points in his last two games. A road matchup against the Packers doesn't appear to be an easy one on paper, but Green Bay has allowed two or more touchdown passes to five of seven quarterbacks they've faced. vs. Ryan Tannehill vs. New York Jets Tannehill has posted solid numbers in recent weeks, scoring 17-plus fantasy points in four of his last five games. A matchup against the Jets this week sets him up to be a low-end QB1 or solid streaming option. New York has allowed two or more touchdown passes to six of eight quarterbacks they've faced on the road. Sleepers:\n\nMarcus Mariota at GB, Tyrod Taylor at DET\n\nSit 'Em vs. Sit of the Week - Matt Ryan vs. Seattle Seahawks Ryan has been fantasy's most popular start at quarterback over the past three weeks, but a tough matchup against the Seahawks makes him a serious risk this weekend. In fact, Seattle has allowed just one QB (Russell Wilson) to throw for more than 300 yards against them. Ryan is best suited for a QB2 slot. vs. Joe Flacco vs. Houston Texans Flacco has put up big fantasy numbers in his last two starts, but this week's matchup in Houston makes him a risky option. The Texans have allowed just one touchdown pass and have an overall stingy defense, making this a game where I'd avoid the Ravens signal-caller. vs. Marcus Mariota vs. Green Bay Packers Mariota has been on fire of late, scoring at least 22.3 fantasy points in five straight games. But a matchup in Green Bay against the Packers makes him a difficult fantasy option. Aaron Rodgers and this unit have been tough on quarterbacks at Lambeau Field, allowing a combined eight touchdown passes in seven games. vs. Derek Carr vs. Washington Redskins Carr is coming off his best fantasy performance of the season, scoring 22.4 points against the Chargers last week. I'd avoid him, though, in a road matchup against the Redskins. In seven games, this unit has allowed just two touchdown passes and the second-fewest fantasy points to opposing quarterbacks. vs. Eli Manning vs. Buffalo Bills Eli and the Giants face a Bills defense that has allowed the fewest fantasy points to opposing quarterbacks, including just two touchdown passes in seven games. Manning has also averaged 13.4 points over his last four games, so he's not a great option for fantasy owners. Busts:\n\nMatt Ryan vs. SEA, Blake Bortles at CLE\n\nMichael Fabiano is an"