NuSTAR has discovered the farthest-away black hole yet.\n\n“We’re seeing black holes in the distant universe for the first time. Up until now, we’ve only detected them in the nearby universe,” NuSTAR principal investigator Fiona Harrison of the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, said in a press release. “We hope to figure out how the black holes in the distant universe grow to masses much larger than any black holes we see nearby.”\n\nThe black hole is located inside a galaxy cluster known as RX J1347.5-1145, located 9.9 billion light-years from Earth. This cluster also contains several galaxies with “hyper-luminous” centers, which are galaxies that have supermassive black holes at their cores.\n\nBut, the black hole discovered by NuSTAR has an especially “hyper-luminous” center, meaning it is significantly larger than any other black hole yet observed in the distant universe.\n\n“We are starting to see the variety of black holes that exists in the universe,” said Christian Wolf, a member of the NuSTAR team and an astronomer at the Australian National University in Canberra. “They’re not all the same. Some are bigger or smaller. Some are bluer or redder. Some don’t give off much radiation at all.”\n\nThe discovery of this black hole is the first result from the NuSTAR survey of distant galaxies. Using NuSTAR’s high-energy X-ray capabilities, the mission has discovered about 20 distant black holes and supermassive black holes.\n\nHowever, NuSTAR isn’t the only telescope observing distant black holes. Another mission, the Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array (NuSTAR’s sister satellite), also discovered a black hole on July 4, 2018.\n\n“We’re going to find hundreds of them.” — Stijn Wuyts, a NuSTAR co-investigator at the University of California, Berkeley\n\n“We’re going to find hundreds of them,” said Stijn Wuyts, a NuSTAR co-investigator at the University of California, Berkeley. “This is a field where we’ve only just started.”\n\nAccording to Wuyts, the NuSTAR survey of distant black holes and supermassive black holes will last about two years. This will allow scientists to map black holes and their host galaxies, learning about the evolution of both.\n\n—\n\nBy Olivia Harvey, Earth.com Staff Writer