Denim & Co. "How Slimming!" 2-Pack Petite Stretch Jeans is rated 4.0 out of 5 by 34 .\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by ladv from great pants perfect fit. love the length. great to wear with boots and sweaters\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by Golfern from Wonderful pants! Perfect fit! These pants are so comfortable and wash and wear very well. I bought three pair and hope there will be more colors. Thank you for a great product!\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by 13Kate from These jeans are slimming!! I am new to Denim & Co. I was always a true size 10 but I have gained some weight. These jeans are wonderful! They fit perfectly. The cut of the leg is wonderful. They hit just below my ankles. I love that. These jeans fit me like a glove! I am so impressed with the quality of the denim and the workmanship. I purchased two pair. The denim is a nice, sturdy fabric. They do not wrinkle when hanging on a hanger, but need to be pressed a bit when first taken out of the dryer. They are very comfortable to wear and, they are slimming. I am 5'2" and I usually wear a 2x. I purchased the 1x petite. They are perfect. I am now going to look for a denim jacket. I am looking forward to more new Denim & Co. items to come!\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by Raquel56 from Great Fit I'm so glad I ordered these. Great fit and love the length.\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by suziz1 from Great fit Great fit and very comfortable. The length was great! I ordered my regular size and they fit perfectly.\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by MsQVCaddict from Very nice fit!! Great fit and very comfortable!! Great purchase!\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by JCVFan from Great Fit! I am loving these jeans! I can hardly believe they are "petite"! The fit is wonderful - no gapping at the waist - and the cut of the leg is not "skinny" but is very slimming and feminine! Thank you, QVC! You are the only store that I can find jeans that fit me like this! I got the ivory and I will be ordering the dark denim soon! I hope that these come in more colors - especially taupe, as the weather is getting colder.