I. INTRODUCTION\n\nIn American society, the most important basis for a successful marriage is to be found in the universal and unchanging relationship of male and female. The male as head of the family has an intrinsic responsibility for the wellbeing and well-being of his wife and children. For a man, failure to fulfill that responsibility constitutes not only a sin against God but also a sin against society. The reason for this is that men are obliged to marry to propagate the race. Since the greater portion of the burden for this is placed upon men, they must realize their responsibility for providing a home. The institution of marriage, then, is a social and economic institution. Without it, society would not survive.\n\nThe idea of male headship is also founded on the fact that men and women are intrinsically different, as the Creator has made them. From the beginning of Creation, God has given men the leadership role, which was expressed in the headship of Adam over Eve. Even in the animal world, males take the leadership role over females. This idea of male headship continues through the history of Israel as the Lord selected men for leadership roles: Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph, for example. Even after the sin in the Garden of Eden, God instructed Adam that it was necessary for him to provide for his wife and children.\n\nThe male and female are fundamentally different in some significant ways. Males have always been given greater physical strength. Moreover, women, as a whole, are physically weaker. They are also emotionally more sensitive than men and, therefore, have the responsibility for bearing and raising children. The male is, however, called upon to be the provider for the family. The man is, therefore, also obligated to work hard to provide for his wife and children, as a way of showing his love for his family. Men are to do this while their wives are bearing and raising children, so that they may also participate in these responsibilities to the fullest extent possible.\n\nTo further clarify the distinction between male and female, we have to consider the differences between a man and a woman's sexuality. God created women and men with different sexual natures, which include both a complementary function and a distinctive one. The function is complementary in the sense that a man and woman can only have sexual union with one another. Thus, their bodies are in harmony. However, the distinctive nature of men and women is that men can perform the sexual act without giving birth to children. The woman, however, cannot perform the sexual act without giving birth to children.\n\nMarriage is intended to be a total commitment between a man and woman. As such, it is a lifetime commitment, made by two people who give themselves to each other and to God. The importance of marriage to God is shown in the fact that He has designed it to be a lifelong relationship. Moreover, when man rejects the ideal of marriage that God has established for society, the relationship becomes a base matter of selfishness and self-gratification. Such a relationship is, at best, a poor substitute for the God-ordained institution. However, as in all sin, it is not the same as the ideal. Sin always has a negative effect on society. It is for this reason that God calls on mankind to obey Him. It is also why the Scriptures say that God hates divorce.\n\nII. WHY DIVORCE IS HATED BY GOD\n\nThe Scriptures show that divorce is a sin that God hates. He is displeased with it because it brings the curse of God on a society. The Scriptures condemn it in the strongest possible language and hold the man who has divorced his wife as being worse than the man who has never married at all.\n\nThe Mosaic Law expressly forbid divorce. This is not to be understood in a legal sense, since the Jews could divorce their wives by reason of her adultery (Deut. 22:21). Moreover, the Jews could divorce a non-Jewish wife by reason of her apostasy (Deut. 24:1-4). In both of these cases, the idea of divorce is understood in a religious context and is not limited to a legal system. This is true of other cases of divorce in the Old Testament as well. The husband can also divorce his wife for the more general reasons of neglect and cruelty (Deut. 22:19-21). In these cases, the idea of divorce is in a more general sense and not limited to a legal system.\n\nAt the beginning of the Christian Era, the Christian Church began to understand that marriage was intended to be a total commitment between two people, who had made a vow before God. Such a vow is understood to be a promise of lifelong commitment to each other and to God. As such, it was understood that such a vow could not be broken. In the fourth century, the Roman Church, under the leadership of Constantine, recognized this by excluding divorce from the authority of the Church. This is one of the reasons that marriage is seen as a sacrament in the Roman Church. It is also why the Church has, since that time, refused to grant a decree of divorce, even for adultery.\n\nThe idea of a lifetime commitment between a man and woman is also evident in the case of Paul and his wife, who are said to be "one flesh." Thus, Paul is exhorting believers to live in such a way that they do not bring disgrace upon their "brother." Moreover, Paul recognizes that this marriage between himself and his wife is the basis for all marriage. Therefore, if a believer is to live with his wife as if she were his sister, this would also require that he do the same to all the brothers and sisters of the Church.\n\nThe Apostle Peter speaks of divorce in his first letter in language similar to Paul's. This was also the view of the Early Church, both Catholic and Protestant. It is also the view of the Orthodox Churches, who do not permit divorce.\n\nIII. CHURCH TEACHINGS ON DIVORCE\n\nThe Church Fathers, such as Origen, did not believe that there could be a legal dissolution of marriage. According to Origen, "Christ was not to dissolve those marriages that are joined together by the solemn authority of the state, nor was He to abolish these rules which man in his law has established for the purpose of the procreation and the education of children, but He was to strengthen them." The Church Fathers believed that divorce was wrong because it separated man and wife. Marriage was a sacred union, which was made by God and was not subject to man's laws. However, this was not to be understood in a legal sense. It was wrong to divorce one's wife even though the laws of a nation permitted it. Moreover, this was to be the case even if the woman had committed adultery. Divorce was still wrong.\n\nThe Church Fathers viewed marriage as a sacrament. The idea that marriage was a sacrament is present in the early Church, even though it was not a formal decree of the Church until the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215. Marriage is recognized as a sacrament because it represents the love between Christ and His Church. Marriage is thus a sign of the covenant between Christ and His Church. Marriage is not only a sign of this covenant but also a means by which this covenant is expressed. Therefore, marriage is an important sacrament of the Christian Church.\n\nIn his Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew, St. Augustine makes it clear that the idea of a "sacrament" does not mean that marriage is a sign of the love between Christ and His Church. Marriage is a sacrament in the sense that it is a sacred reality, which is the sign of something else. It is the sacred reality, the divine idea that is the true sign of marriage. This is true of all the sacraments, in which the sign is a reality that is above the natural order. Therefore, the sacramental sign is but a small part of the reality to which it points. It is for this reason that the Church has forbidden remarriage after divorce. It is not because the Church has an opinion of divorce. The Church has always had an opinion of divorce. In the Early Church, however, remarriage after divorce was considered a sin. This is true even in cases where the woman had committed adultery.\n\nThe Orthodox Churches and the Roman Catholic Church have the same view on this matter. The Orthodox Church is opposed to divorce because it violates the principle of unity between Christ and His Church. They also understand the doctrine of marriage as an indissoluble union. It is this idea of marriage that is seen as the basis of the Orthodox teaching. The Roman Catholic Church also has the same view as the Orthodox Churches. The difference between the two churches is that the Roman Church has understood this to be a teaching that is rooted in Divine Revelation, whereas the Orthodox Churches have taken this to be the position of the Early Church.\n\nHowever, both the Roman Church and the Orthodox Churches have also taken this to be the teaching of the Early Church. In his Homilies on the Epistles of Paul to the Corinthians, Origen declares that marriage is a symbol of the union between Christ and His Church. This is the same teaching that is found in the Roman Church. Origen also takes this to be the teaching of the Early Church.\n\nIn his Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew, Augustine takes the same position. He sees marriage as a sacrament, in the sense that it represents the union between Christ and His Church. He states, "The bond of a valid marriage, which is"