Rehabilitation of the ‘invisible’ asylum seekers in UK\n\nThe Economist recently conducted a study on asylum seekers in Britain. The study is based on the responses to a questionnaire filled out by the asylum seekers themselves.\n\nAccording to the survey conducted by the Economist, people from poor countries, in their attempt to flee from the political and economic conditions of their native countries, pay thousands of pounds to make the dangerous sea journey to Britain. They travel in small boats that are overcrowded and not seaworthy. This leads to accidents at sea where many asylum seekers lose their lives. Once they reach Britain they live in small, overcrowded hostels. They live in very difficult conditions. Their only source of income is state aid. As their life is very difficult and as they have no means to improve their financial position, many of them suffer from mental illness. This leads to an increase in crime rate, theft and prostitution. They also suffer from abuse by landlords, the police and the local population.\n\nAccording to the survey, most of the respondents stated that they wanted to stay in Britain. They stated that they have received proper education in their native countries and as such are very keen to go back to their native countries. The respondents were of the opinion that their situation is a temporary one and they wish to go back to their home countries when their country is safe for them to go back. Many asylum seekers are already married and their families are in their native countries. They wished that they would be able to get jobs and stay in their native countries, rather than live in the poor conditions of Britain. The asylum seekers have stated that they wish to have a better future and as such are willing to go back to their home countries. The asylum seekers are of the opinion that the British government should support their effort to go back to their native countries.\n\nAccording to the survey, the respondents were worried about the future of their children. The children of asylum seekers, like their parents, suffer from poverty and are unable to get education. They feel ashamed as they cannot afford to buy clothes and books. They feel that their situation is unfair as they do not have the same rights as the other children.\n\nThere are many people who are willing to work in order to support their families. As many of the respondents were highly qualified and highly educated, they would like to work for their families, for the British government or for their country. The respondents stated that their experience, skills and knowledge would be of great use to the British economy and government.\n\nThe asylum seekers are keen to be able to live with their families and are keen to work in order to contribute to their families. Their main concern is the fear that if they leave Britain they would be tortured by their own government. They stated that the British government should provide them with documentation in order to enable them to go back to their countries. They believe that if they are able to get passports and official documents from the British government, it will enable them to return to their countries.\n\nAccording to the survey, the asylum seekers are aware of the fact that Britain is at war with Iraq. They believe that the government should intervene to stop the war. They do not want to be caught in the crossfire. The respondents are aware of the fact that many people are taking up arms against the British forces. They stated that the British government should do something to prevent such activities and they believed that the British government should work towards peace. They also stated that the British government should"