"HARRY POTTER and the Order of the Phoenix is a 2007 British-American fantasy adventure film directed by David Yates and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. It is based on the novel of the same name by J. K. Rowling. The film, which is the fifth instalment in the Harry Potter film series, was written by Michael Goldenberg and produced by David Heyman and David Barron.\n\nThe film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, alongside Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as Harry’s best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger.\n\nThe story follows Harry’s fifth year at Hogwarts as the Ministry of Magic is in denial of Lord Voldemort’s return. Harry must uncover the truth, with the help of his friends, and confront Voldemort.\n\nThe film began production in early 2007 and was released in theatres in the United Kingdom and United States on 12 July 2007, grossing a total of $292 million at the worldwide box office.\n\nThe film was nominated for two BAFTA Film Awards in 2008.\n\nFollowing a Harry Potter fan’s dream that Harry’s late headmaster Albus Dumbledore is alive, and in a critical condition at the Ministry of Magic, Harry Potter and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, decide to rescue him, as the school year comes to a close.\n\nOn the night of their attempt to break into the Ministry, Ministry of Magic employee Delores Umbridge slashes Rubeus Hagrid’s hand with a knife, accusing him of stealing her kitten.\n\nHarry, Ron, and Hermione fight the Death Eaters. Lucius Malfoy and his son Draco both try to attack Harry, but he manages to save himself. Harry, Ron and Hermione get separated, and in the chaos, Ron manages to grab the prophecy from the Ministry’s Hall of Prophecies.\n\nHarry and Hermione escape the Ministry, and Ron awakes to see Harry and Hermione’s signatures on the prophecy, but does not know that Harry had ripped the prophecy out and left it in the hands of his godfather, Sirius Black, before he was killed.\n\nSirius, Harry, and Hermione head to the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, where they meet with fellow members Remus Lupin and Nymphadora Tonks, and Sirius’s brother, Regulus.\n\nThe Order is joined by the regular adult wizards and witches in the battle, as Voldemort and his Death Eaters take over the Ministry of Magic and declare martial law on the entire Wizarding community.\n\nAlbus Dumbledore appears to die in battle, but this is revealed to be a ruse, as he and Severus Snape attack Voldemort and Lucius Malfoy, and attempt to take the prophecy from Ron. Lucius disarms Dumbledore, and an enraged Bellatrix kills him.\n\nBellatrix and Narcissa Malfoy stand by their husbands’ sides. Albus Dumbledore’s portrait is replaced with one of Snape. Harry, Ron, and Hermione are rescued by Order members. Voldemort and the Death Eaters leave the Ministry.\n\nHarry, Ron, and Hermione are told by Remus Lupin that all of the other Order members have been killed. Harry attempts to repair his damaged wand. He is visited by Snape, who tells Harry that the boy’s wand is irreparably damaged and needs to be destroyed, as Voldemort has become aware that the wand is of a “unique” nature.\n\nThe two engage in a fierce duel in which Snape calls on his master to save him. Harry is unaffected by the curse due to his ability to cast a shield charm. He manages to shield himself and fight back, and in his distraction, Snape accidentally breaks his neck and dies.\n\nHarry meets with Dumbledore’s portrait, who reveals to Harry that the boy’s mother died to save him, and Harry is filled with his mother’s love. Harry reveals that he feels angry and confused at this revelation.\n\nHarry also learns that the reason that Voldemort has gone to such great lengths to kill him is that Harry is a Horcrux, a piece of Voldemort’s soul that resides in Harry’s body.\n\nHarry then leaves Dumbledore’s portrait and meets with Ron and Hermione, who have just been told that the students and staff are to evacuate the school, as the Death Eaters have declared that Hogwarts is no longer safe.\n\nHarry, Ron, and Hermione are joined by Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, and several other members of the Order of the Phoenix, and they apparate to 12 Grimmauld Place, the headquarters of the Order.\n\nThe Battle of the Department of Mysteries is followed by the Death Eaters taking over the Ministry of Magic, as they believe the prophecy to be a key to Voldemort’s victory. Harry returns to Hogwarts to retrieve the prophecy from Voldemort.\n\nHe, Ron, and Hermione get ambushed by Death Eaters, and when Harry goes after the prophecies, he ends up dueling with Voldemort.\n\nHarry calls upon the remaining strength of his mother’s love, and as Voldemort’s Killing Curse rebounds upon him and hits Harry, the battle is ended, and the school is cleared of the Death Eaters.\n\nHarry wakes up to find Dumbledore, Sirius, and Remus in the hospital wing, as well as his friends and the rest of the school, and he realizes that he is safe.\n\nDumbledore then proceeds to give Harry his restored invisibility cloak, explaining to Harry that the Invisibility Cloak is one of the Deathly Hallows. Harry then says goodbye to his friends, as he leaves with Dumbledore to destroy the seven horcruxes that contain fragments of Voldemort’s soul, which will make him immortal.\n\nThe film ends with Harry and Dumbledore leaving the school in a car, accompanied by Professor Minerva McGonagall.\n\nI liked this movie as it is full of action and adventure. The plot is great as well as the dialogue. It is a well made movie and it is very entertaining.\n\nThis movie is definitely a must-watch, as it has plenty of action as well as being very humorous.\n\nAdvertisements