Joan Warde\n\nHenry James's late-nineteenth-century narrative imagination takes place in the stately, homogeneous mise-en-scène of the "grand old country house" or "house of distinction," as one would then have called it. The function of this venerable space is to mediate between the private and public worlds: it is an anchor to family tradition and the cradle of private life, yet it is also a place where the outside world finds its way in, a place where the intimate sphere of homecoming is shared by the activities of daily life and the ritual occasions of public gatherings. Public life is played out in private, in the dressing rooms and dining rooms, libraries and billiard rooms.The house has its own discourse, too, its own history of drama and tragedy, its own gossip, hearsay, scandal, public secrets, and secrets kept from public view. If the characters play out their lives in an old house, they play out their secrets in one another. Housekeeping is a complex affair of domestic self-concern and social self-concern. Henry James's housekeeping motifs are complex, too, for the very "good, sound old house" may have a "dusky, devouring heart," and, as he wrote in a letter, a "familiar, grotesque" face.The housekeeping motifs in The Golden Bowl set a dramatic stage for his characters' maneuvers. As James conceived it, this novel would be a "play" (that is, the domestic stage, a small one for a small cast), the action of which would unfold, in separate acts, "through the rooms and passages of a great house" (HJL 3: 394). A house of action in itself, it would provide a suitable setting for a drama of human self-knowledge. The opening of the novel, we are told, takes place in the winter of 1904, and the principal characters are three American cousins, Kate Croy, Charlotte Stant, and Prince Amerigo, in England to take part in the festivities of the coronation of Edward VII. On a dark and stormy night, the cousins walk from their London hotel to the house of the Duchess of Portland, where they are invited to spend the night before traveling to the country the next day.When they reach the house, they come upon two people in the entry hall. These are the Duchess, her niece Fanny Assingham, and her nephew Mr. Ralph, whom we learn is Mrs. Assingham's husband. Kate and Charlotte have been told they will not be housed in the same rooms as Mr. and Mrs. Assingham, and Ralph, who is sleeping in the same room with his wife, is explaining to her why he objects to this. In the dining room beyond them, we hear the Duchess saying to the other guests that she has been sitting at a table for twelve and that in consequence she had to leave out Mr. Assingham. This situation creates a sense of mystery about Assingham. He will soon take on more importance, for he is soon to become a major character. Yet we will never hear his voice. As the novel opens, his speech is disembodied, as if he has been dropped out of the narrative altogether. Like the rest of the dinner party, we never hear the sound of his voice, and, when he is referred to, it is always in the third person. This detachment from the dinner party lends a sense of mystery and horror to his appearance, which in turn becomes an indication of the power of the Duchess to render people silent. To the cousins, Mr. Assingham seems a blank, yet their own blankness soon becomes visible to them, and it will never be entirely erased from their self-consciousness.With this first sighting of the house, the dramatic stage is set: the dinner party is private, but it is played out in a house of public consequence. The mysterious appearance of Mr. Assingham, for example, puts the cousins on notice that they may be in the company of royalty. " 'Royalty,' Mr. Assingham remarked, however, appeared to have been sufficiently provided for" (HJL 2: 130). Mr. Assingham is a frequent narrator in the novel, and his role is to provide explanations and clarify what we don't understand. The dinner party gives no clue about who is present, and, at the end of the evening, we are told that Mr. Assingham is the only guest "of whom it was publicly known" (HJL 2: 136). What this means, however, is that he is the only guest of whom the Duchess of course knows, for all of the others are in the house in order to keep up appearances for the coronation festivities. Moreover, the presence of royalty does not lend any clarification to the evening. The evening itself is a screen behind which are hidden the motives and desires of the characters, and it is only by tracking these and bringing them to the surface that we can begin to understand their plots. (This is not a novel of action; it is one of plot and counterplot.) Assingham's explanation, which has no authority, is one of the many statements made in this opening scene which the novel will go on to reveal as misrepresentations. The room the cousins find themselves in is dark, and we will later learn that the "desolation of the scene" (HJL 2: 138) has to do with more than the weather.The novel's dramatic space will go on to provide a rich set of patterns for James's narrative imagination, and its plot will move inexorably from one house to another, in a narrative arc which begins at the old country house and ends at the newer house, between the cousins and between Kate and Amerigo. In between is the Grand Babylon Hotel, a transitional space where there is a profusion of guests and at which the old space begins to give way to the new. The Grand Babylon will not end the "old, obscure, sinister" (HJL 4: 366) social customs of the old country house, but it will not give up its privileges either. The Royal Hotel, which Kate and Charlotte go to stay at after their stay at the Duchess of Portland's, is in the same old London neighborhood, yet it is different in that it is more modern, more spacious, more public.The Hotel du Mond is a "high and light" (HJL 5: 20) space, and yet it is the site of the final confrontation. Its public space will provide the scene for the couple's confrontation with public society and the space within it, the scene for their encounter with their father. It is a space whose irony will become part of the problem of self-knowledge. The Hotel du Mond has the theatrical atmosphere of a large public space, and yet it will also have the theatricality of a stage set, as it becomes the locus for the drama of recognition. At the same time, the hotel is a set for a tragedy and a set of scenes for a comedy. It is the site of a tragic death and of a comic scene of recognition. It is the modern form of the "grand old country house," where the private and the public are constantly juxtaposed.There are many other houses in the novel, some of which may seem to be"