"Technorati Tag: main index, ipod, google, p2p, google book search, gbook, ebook, itunes, gbs, gbs author\n\nI've posted a few things about Google Book Search in the past. It's an important project and it's got huge potential, both good and bad. Google made news last week when they announced they'd begun scanning physical books. This is a pretty big deal for them. It could generate huge amounts of data, and they could sell this data to various places (like, maybe, Apple), and the revenue would help them to drive costs down for their users. But it might also turn out to be a huge boon for people wanting to make a buck off of their books. It could also, theoretically, provide readers with a better means to search for books that they can read on their computers, phones, and ipods. So, let's break this down into three camps:The IPod/Apple: They're going to release an iPod that lets you view (and possibly download) ebooks, but the iTunes Store will probably only carry ebooks that Apple wants you to have, since they don't want to deal with Amazon and its DRM (and Amazon, being that big, can just walk away from the whole ebook thing, really). They can make a deal with a huge company, but they'd have to do it on Apple's terms, or they could make a deal with a bunch of indie ebooks, which they can't control, and the numbers would be pretty small compared to the volume of sales.The Kindle: They already control the marketplace for ebooks on this platform, and have sold millions of Kindles already. I don't think this really affects them in any way, other than to make sure they're in control of the platform so they can dominate the ebook market.The New York Times and the other mainstream media outlets: They are really excited about the prospect of Google scanning millions of books. They can get some for free, and they can also scan some of the books they already have and make them available. But if they want to sell any, they'll have to get permissions, so it could be a while before that happens.So, this is the question: if Google is going to start selling books, how will they do it? Google, being Google, is likely to do something completely different, so they have the opportunity to make some great stuff happen, but it'll take some time, and they may not have a lot of patience. I really think this is a great project, but I have my doubts about it.