Hindi literature\n\nWhen Delhi was ravaged by famine in the 16th century, many of its citizens fled north to towns such as Agra and Lucknow. Hindi literature in the classical form found its roots in the Bhakti movements of north India in the 16th century. Urdu literature has been cultivated with both influences and native traditions.\n\nThe colonial rule of the British Empire introduced English and western literature to India, and had the most profound impact on Hindi literature. In addition to the literature that evolved during the Mughal period, this period was also marked by the literary works of Bhakti saints.\n\nLike Persian, in Urdu also poetry played a central role. It was also the main language of the court, where Urdu was distinguished from Hindi by a heavy Persian vocabulary. The two developed a rich literary tradition with a profusion of prose genres and poetic forms. There are early Prakrit work of Dandin and Gunabhadra, an example for that Dandin was a Buddhist author and had done translation of sutras and sastras.\n\nIn South Asia, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, Hindu nationalism in Hindi-speaking regions was expressed through the development of Hindi-language literature. During the 19th century, the Hindi literature developed the tradition of Dalit literature; works of B. In the 20th century, this tradition was carried forward by the Bhakti movement poets, in such notable works as Kabir and Amrita Pritam, the Western equivalent of which would be Whitman and Ginsberg.\n\nHindi literature is a formally recognized strand in the "national literature" of India. While India has several regional languages and traditions of literature, the "national literature" of India is written in Hindi.\n\nWhile Hindi is the official language of India, most literary works are written in regional languages. The prose works of the Bhakti Movement were originally written in various dialects of Hindi. The Awadhi dialect of Hindi has been influential in the development of Hindi prose, and most Hindi novels and short stories have been written in it.\n\nWith the translation of a large number of Western literary works in Hindi, there was a fresh impetus to the development of modern Hindi literature. This movement is called the Chhayavaad. One of the most prolific Hindi novelists was Premchand. Another great Hindi novelist was Munshi Premchand. An interest in Munshi Premchand's works among the wider populace has led to a resurgence in the popularity of his works. Other writers of the same era included Mahadevi Varma, Mahavir Prasad Dwivedi, Brijmohan Mishra, and Krishan Chander. The change in the Indian educational system, the literary taste of the people and the Hindi belt's growing cultural influence helped Hindi gain greater literary and socio-political popularity. Many Hindi writers belonging to this era are regarded as important figures in modern Indian literature.\n\nThe Anand family of novels is a sequence of novels by Munshi Premchand. The fictional village of Bawara in them is based on author's native town of Hamirpur.\n\nJai Arjun Singh (born in 1967) is an Indian Hindi fiction writer. He was a part of a modern generation of writers who were popular in the 1990s, along with Sachin Kundalkar, Krishna Sobti, etc. Singh has contributed short stories, novellas and novels in Hindi. He has received various awards, including the prestigious Sahitya Akademi Award for his work, both as a writer and editor. Singh's popularity as a Hindi writer was influenced by his early life in the state of Uttar Pradesh.\n\nAfter independence of India, the Hindi language has continued to grow in all Indian social sectors. Many Hindi writers and poets continued to write in the era of Independence.\n\nJawaharlal Nehru University is a prominent university in India, situated in New Delhi. JNU has produced a large number of important Hindi writers, including, among others, Vikram Seth, Mukul Kesavan, Gulzar, Harishankar Parsai, Anita Desai, Saadat Hasan Manto, Munshi Premchand, Acharya Chatursen, Dr. Pankaj Narayan, Bhisham Sahni, Amrita Pritam, Sumitranandan Pant, Satyajit Ray, Rajendra Yadav, Kedarnath Singh, Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar', Umashankar Joshi, Suryakant Tripathi 'Nirala', Vishnu Prabhakar, Ramesh Pangariya, Rajendra Keshavlal Dhandhale, Gopi Chand Narang, Vinay Bhargava, Brij Narayan, Chandrashekhar, Chaman Lal, Vimala Thakur and Prakash Swatantra Raju.