Anselm and his ontological proof, is one of the most important Christian philosophers of the Middle Ages. He is also well known for his attempts to fuse the sciences with theology, something of a controversial topic for medieval theologians. The ontological argument itself is based upon the idea that God’s nature is that of existence. Therefore, to say that God exists is to say that God has the greatest nature, which in turn leads to the conclusion that God must exist. Some scholars argue that this is the proof’s most fundamental flaw, namely that God’s nature is unprovable and thus, cannot be equated to the definition of existence. Other critics point out that the greatest nature is really a metaphysic and therefore cannot be understood by people. The latter claim has been supported by Immanuel Kant and many other philosophers since. Kant’s work was not known to Anselm’s, but it is clear that the German philosopher would not have found much use in Anselm’s philosophy.\n\nThe foundation of Anselm’s ontological argument is a branch of philosophy known as natural theology. Natural theology is the search for a knowledge of God through the use of reason. The argument’s goal is to prove that God exists in some way, and as such is a concept that is widely accepted in the world of Christian philosophy. In many ways, Anselm’s argument for God’s existence shares many similarities with the arguments of many of his contemporaries. Anselm claims that God exists and that this conclusion can be proven using the method of defining terms. The proof proceeds from the claim that God is the greatest thing conceivable to the claim that God must also exist. Anselm’s argument does not satisfy many people because it does not provide any evidence to support the claim that God is in fact the greatest conceivable thing. This is one of the major weaknesses of Anselm’s argument, but it is also one of the weaknesses of most arguments for the existence of God. The ontological argument can be seen as an attempt to prove God’s existence without supporting any specific philosophical view of God’s nature.\n\nMuch of Anselm’s work focuses on the attempts to explain and prove God’s existence. He was one of the earliest of many philosophers to attempt to explain and prove God’s existence. The debate over the existence of God has continued over the years, and the arguments have been supported and refuted on many different occasions. Anselm’s work is important because he was one of the first philosophers to put forth the idea that existence itself was proof of God. He was also one of the first Christian philosophers to try and explain the idea of God in a non-theological way. Many of Anselm’s contemporaries had rejected his view on God’s nature, and they also criticized his work on natural theology.\n\nOne of the major debates over Anselm’s work was that of the ontological argument. This is a popular concept that states that God’s existence is a self-evident truth. The name of the argument comes from the phrase “something that is greater than which cannot be conceived”. This concept became widely accepted in the world of Christian philosophy, and it is still being debated today. The concept of God’s existence as a self-evident truth has been supported by many Christian philosophers, including Thomas Aquinas. Aquinas’ view of God was one of the most influential views of God’s nature in the Middle Ages. The ideas presented by Anselm and Aquinas on God’s nature were among the first attempts to view God in a logical way.\n\nMost of Anselm’s work focused on the idea of God and the way in which God was perceived. He focused on the idea that God was perceived through faith and that this idea had a real and substantial foundation. Many critics viewed Anselm as a philosophical follower of Augustine, and he was certainly influenced by many of Augustine’s works. The Confessions of Augustine were written in the fifth century, and they discussed the views of the time on God and the manner in which people should understand God. Anselm’s view of God is therefore quite different from many of his contemporaries, and he was heavily criticized for his work on natural theology.\n\nThe ideas presented by Anselm were extremely influential to his contemporaries. Although his ideas were at times criticized, many of his contemporaries found them to be the most logical views of God. His argument for God’s existence was extremely popular among his peers, but it is one of his most controversial works.\n\nAnselm of Canterbury Biography\n\nAnselm of Canterbury was born in 1033 in Aosta. He was the second of four sons and his parents were wealthy. Anselm’s father was an Italian who owned a noble estate. His mother was the niece of the archbishop of Rheims. Anselm was well educated, and he studied both rhetoric and literature as a young man. He studied law in 1057 at the cathedral school in Laon. During this time, he became close friends with Roscelin of Compiègne. Roscelin was an expert on logic, and he would be one of Anselm’s best friends and mentors for the rest of his life. He was also close to Lanfranc and eventually became his student.\n\nAnselm studied theology in the early 1060s at the cathedral school of Chartres. He also spent a great deal of time studying theology and grammar at the school of Benevento. Anselm spent two years at the school and was then called to the cathedral school of Canterbury in 1062. Anselm was called to the cathedral school to replace the archbishop. The archbishop of Canterbury was the highest ranking prelate in England and he was charged with the administration of the Church in England. Anselm quickly gained respect in his new position, and he wrote a new rule for the cathedral school. The rule was based on the Rule of St. Benedict, which was the most important rule for monasteries at the time. He was also responsible for the cathedral school’s many other duties and its administration. He established the system of electing canons and was also in charge of its finances. Anselm had a great deal of power in his new position, but he also was a reformer. He placed emphasis on the importance of education and scholarship, and he ensured that the students received high quality instruction. The rule at the cathedral school was seen as being high quality and the students at the school were trained in Greek, Latin, rhetoric, dialectic, and arithmetic.\n\nAnselm also established a library at the school. The library contained many ancient works, which were frequently read by students. He became an expert on the writings of Augustine, and he began his own writing career in the early 1060s. His writings were influential in the development of later philosophy, and his ideas on natural theology were both influential and controversial. In 1063, Anselm was appointed archbishop of Canterbury. This was an extremely important position, and Anselm would play a major role in the Christianization of England. He was a major contributor to the revival of learning in England, and he attempted to bring education to all of his subjects.\n\nHe was a skilled theologian, and he produced several important theological works. These included the Monologion and the Proslogion. The Monologion addressed the questions of the nature of God. The Proslogion addressed the questions of the nature of God’s knowledge and the proof for God’s existence. Anselm was influenced by Augustine in his writing of the Monologion"