To a certain extent, the goal of the Trump administration's trade policy, as explained in a speech given by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on March 1, is the creation of a "reciprocal" or "two-way" trading system in which all nations treat each other equally. While not naming China, the intended target of that policy was clear. The Chinese government, on the other hand, was not impressed.\n\nWriting in the English-language edition of China Daily on Monday, Ma Kai, vice-premier of the State Council, or China's cabinet, and chair of the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), countered the Trump administration's position by arguing that China has been the most open to foreign investment in the world for the past three decades.\n\nIn Ma's view, China is playing by the rules of free trade. The problem is that the rules that America wants are not the same rules that America has been playing by. The United States wants to be able to sell its goods and services into China, but it wants to block Chinese goods and services from being sold in America.\n\nSpecifically, Ma pointed to the issue of the U.S. $347 billion trade deficit with China, which is the focus of a U.S. investigation to determine whether China's government has unfairly subsidized certain industries.\n\nBut China is not subsidizing its industries, according to Ma. The U.S. trade deficit is simply a function of America's industrial overcapacity and under-consumption, as well as Chinese market and regulatory restrictions on certain industries.\n\nIn Ma's view, there is an easy solution to the trade deficit, and that is to allow China to import more agricultural products, textiles, and auto parts from the United States.\n\nThis is not the first time Ma has been forced to explain the Chinese position in the ongoing trade war. Last week, he held an hour-long interview with Charlie Rose, the television host. In the interview, Ma also said that he would not criticize the Trump administration for the position it is taking. Instead, he is simply trying to point out to the Trump administration that it is China that has been working toward a free trade regime, and that the American government has not been as open as the Chinese government has been in allowing Chinese companies to invest in American businesses.\n\nWhat Ma is really doing is not simply trying to engage in a debate about the nature of free trade, but to make sure that Americans understand how the Chinese government is fighting to protect its own economy from the American tariffs, while at the same time, maintaining a narrative of the mutual benefits of free trade.\n\nMa's interview with Charlie Rose can be viewed here: