Sasura Bada Paisawala\n\nSasura Bada Paisawala is a 1993 Bollywood comedy film directed by Rajkumar Kohli. The film stars Govinda, Karisma Kapoor, Tabu and Farha Naaz.\n\nManikchand(Kader Khan) is a rich businessman whose son Raghav(Govinda) is a carefree playboy. Raghav is in love with a woman named Bindu(Karisma Kapoor), but his father has already decided that he will get married to Chanda(Tabu). Chanda is the daughter of Raghav's father's business partner, Shambhu Dayal. Manikchand has two more sons - the younger one, Sunil(Shakti Kapoor), is a failed businessman, while the elder one, Jagmohan(Govinda) is a lawyer.\n\nJagmohan's daughter, Komal(Farha Naaz) is very close to Raghav and she shares his carefree attitude. On the day of Raghav and Bindu's engagement, Chanda's father turns up and demands that Raghav marry Chanda immediately. Raghav refuses to marry Chanda without knowing her and Bindu leaves for her home in Shimla.\n\nBindu's father tells Raghav that he should forget Bindu and marry Chanda. Raghav and his friend, Pradhan(Om Puri) agree that they will try and win Bindu back. Raghav and Pradhan disguise themselves as Santaji and Santa respectively and go to Shimla. There they see Bindu's marriage being arranged with the police inspector, Anand(Avtar Gill). Anand's father knows about Raghav's masquerade and helps him get closer to Bindu. Raghav and Bindu start to spend time together.\n\nMeanwhile, Jagmohan and Sunil are making a mess of their father's business. When Manikchand finds out, he goes to Shimla to confront his sons. Jagmohan tells Raghav and Bindu about his troubles and they decide to go to Bombay and help him. When they arrive, they find that Jagmohan has hired a manager who is very successful and has already made them a lot of money. Raghav and Bindu convince Jagmohan and his sons to go back to Shimla, where Jagmohan will take his father's business back. Jagmohan, Sunil and Jagmohan's sons go back to Shimla, while Raghav and Bindu decide to go to Bhuj.\n\nManikchand goes to Bhuj and takes control of the business there. When he learns that Raghav and Bindu are in Bhuj, he tells Jagmohan and his sons to go to Bhuj and get Raghav and Bindu married. Jagmohan and his sons go to Bhuj, but Raghav and Bindu are"