"A fellow from AllTrials.net pointed out to me a study by the Journal of Clinical Oncology entitled “Association of Trial Registration With Journal Impact Factor and the Probability of Trials Being Published in Relation to Registered Results.” The basic study design was as follows:\n\nEvaluate the relationship between registered results and publication of trial results on the Journal of Clinical Oncology Web site.\n\nThe researchers identified a total of 116 trials from the ClinicalTrials.gov registry and the Journal of Clinical Oncology Web site, which were published during 2003 to 2011. The authors determined whether a trial was registered or not. From the conclusions:\n\nAs of January 2013, 56% (68 of 116) of trials had results available in the Journal of Clinical Oncology Web site. For registered trials, there was a positive association between registered status and the likelihood of publication of trial results in the Journal of Clinical Oncology. Although there was no statistically significant association between trial outcome and registration status, there was a trend toward more positive results being published for registered trials.\n\nThis study suggests that, while registered results don’t guarantee publication, they have a positive impact. Yet it’s important to remember that the proportion of trials registered that are actually published was about half (54%), which is far from 100%. I would also like to see this study replicated in other clinical trial registries (e.g., ClinicalTrials.gov and the European Clinical Trial Register), since the JCO is a highly selective journal. I would also like to see a study with a longer time-frame. I don’t know how long the paper was in the works, but I’m guessing it took a while.\n\nWhile the study seems reasonable, I’m not sure how much one can extrapolate from this paper in terms of impact on clinical trial registration and publication of results. It’s just one piece of the puzzle, as AllTrials points out.\n\nImage by dave_7 via Flickr\n\nLike this: Like Loading...