\n\nTags\n\nBack to list of posts\n\nThe reason for this is that in this kind of market, you don't want to be in an equity investment. You want to be in safe securities which don't fluctuate too much. Like CDs. If you keep a fixed amount of money in a CD and the interest rate stays constant (or goes up), you know that your fixed amount is not going to fluctuate in value by too much.So, to start, let's think about some long term goals that you have. What do you want to do 5 years from now? 10 years? 20 years? Where would you like to be financially? Have you set some specific goals for yourself?This is my story. In the meantime I will be working on getting that monkey off my back and regaining control of my life. Its very hard and as Ive said before, very humbling. Im not a perfect person. But I am a person with potential. I know this for a fact because I have seen my potential and I have achieved it. And now I have this debt and it has me worried and scared. I have my heart set on purchasing a house in the near future and I know that this has to happen for that to happen.When people are looking for financial advice they usually get a lot of conflicting information. Some may even suggest that they put all of their money into gold and that is the best place to put it. However, if you are looking to learn more about gold and where the best places are to invest your money, you need to keep reading. And with the Olympics out of the way, I'd like to know, where does the free market lead us now. Something like a new commercialization of Olympism. Something much more like the Great Global Gladiators' Track & Field Stadia Circus. Something a little more like the Disneyworld of the future. Or maybe, something a little more like the planet Saturn. Possibly more like the Cold War, played out to the bitter end.I've been through some very rough times in the last two years. I have lost my father to cancer and I have lost my best friend to financial troubles. I've also spent the last two years unemployed. I worked for several months to earn money to pay for my wedding. But shortly after I was married, I lost my job. Then my husband lost his job. And our financial situation really started going downhill. I knew I needed to take control of the situation and I knew I needed to do it fast.I started by looking for a second job. I found one working in a local deli, but it didn't pay much. We cut back on our expenses as much as we could. We also looked into some debt management programs. Unfortunately, none of the debt management programs I looked at seemed to work for our situation. They all wanted us to sign up for a 3 or 5 year program and our creditors were so aggressive that it didn't seem like that would be a good idea.So I went looking for financial advice. I found a website that gave me some really great ideas about how to pay off our debt. They suggested the debt snowball technique. With the debt snowball technique you start paying off the debts with the lowest balances. You pay as much as you can on these debts each month and you throw every extra penny you can at them. As these debts get paid off, you roll the money that you were using to pay off those debts into the next highest balance debt. This helps to increase your debt payoff each month and really gets things moving in the right direction.The debt snowball technique worked great for us. We got the money we needed to pay off our debts and we didn't have to make any sacrifices at all. I highly recommend it to anyone who is struggling with debt. It can really work great for you if you can find the extra money to throw at your debts.It's a good question, because it's a hard question to answer. If you are very motivated to make a lot of money fast, I'd recommend you go with your passion. You are likely to enjoy it more, and as a result you will work hard to make it happen. A related question that people often ask is, "What is the best industry to start a business?" I recommend that you start by picking an industry you enjoy, rather than trying to find the "best" industry.I believe the hardest part is getting a home business started. If you are new to internet marketing, you probably don't have a large following yet. Your best chance of succeeding is by offering people some sort of freebie. If you can get enough people to follow you, you can begin to make money.