"Many people who oppose the minimum wage assume that raising the minimum wage is bad for the economy and will cause a lot of unemployment. This is mostly false. A new study has revealed that raising the minimum wage does not kill jobs. This is not just good news for the people who will now get a raise, but also for the economy as a whole.\n\nOpponents of the minimum wage often say that it will create a lot of unemployment and that this is proof that the minimum wage should be abolished. They argue that it creates a job loss on an economy-wide scale. However, this new study has proved that the minimum wage will not cause massive job loss. This is not just great news for the people who get a raise, but it also means that the economy will benefit.\n\nThe study comes from the National Employment Law Project (NELP) and reveals that raising the minimum wage does not cause massive job loss. In fact, only two percent of the workforce is impacted by a minimum wage increase. This means that the economy will benefit, but not that much. However, it is still a positive impact.\n\nHowever, the study also shows that the country would have to raise the minimum wage by $2.13 to achieve the same number of jobs as a similar increase in the 1990s. This is not really a surprise, as the economy was growing more rapidly back then.\n\nRaising the minimum wage was also seen to boost the economy. The study found that a $1 increase in the minimum wage would increase the GDP by $2.62. This is a significant amount and would be great for the economy as a whole. In fact, it could even boost the economy so much that it could lift more people out of poverty.\n\nWhile a raise in the minimum wage does not have a massive impact on the economy as a whole, it still has a positive impact. This means that the people who will now get a raise will enjoy it. This will also help the economy, and make the country a better place to live in.\n\nThose who oppose the minimum wage should know that it does not create massive unemployment. This is also great news for the economy, and it means that raising the minimum wage is great for everyone.