When Germany’s leaders first considered funding the Energy Storage Systems project in September 2013, the country’s wind and solar power resources were about to boom, but they still needed help storing all that intermittent energy.\n\nToday, two years later, the political landscape has changed significantly. At the end of 2015, the German government announced it would cut its subsidies for renewables, and the country’s policy on the environment was put under review by the newly-elected government.\n\nDespite that uncertainty, the German team pressed on with the project. At the project’s completion, it has led to three demonstrators that are ready to enter the market and will be the first battery energy storage systems for utility scale in Europe.\n\n“The technology is ready and our manufacturing partners are waiting to sell this product,” said Stephan Keese, managing director of Siemens’ business with storage systems. “Now the technology has to be tested in practice.”\n\nBy “tested in practice,” Keese means that these BESS systems will have to prove that they can work well in the field and perform in real-world applications. To do that, they will have to face challenges like over-voltage and overheating in real-world situations.\n\n“You can do this in a lab, but you cannot simulate all the phenomena that you have in real life,” Keese said. “The first step will be to get feedback from customers to understand how these systems work in practice.”\n\nAccording to the research director at Fraunhofer ISE, Martin Hofmann, the demonstration is well-designed to meet those real-world challenges. He said that the project provides a good opportunity to learn more about the technical challenges of batteries for the electric power grid, and that the results from this project will be valuable to the developers of storage systems, be it for grid or for commercial buildings.\n\n“It’s an excellent project,” Hofmann said. “It’s important that the tests are done with different grid codes and different regions.”\n\nHofmann also highlighted that the project is the first of its kind in Europe, and will provide an opportunity for other countries to learn from Germany’s experiences.\n\nThe Energy Storage Systems project is led by Siemens, supported by partners Eaton, Ford, Bundesnetzagentur and BSW and implemented by the Fraunhofer ISE.\n\nIn the field of electricity storage, Siemens and Eaton are the only manufacturers in the world that are ready to sell their products today. Together, they are a formidable force in the field, with the combined sales of their battery systems reaching a value of more than $1 billion in 2013.\n\nAfter the demonstration phase, the three battery energy storage systems will be offered to the market. Eaton’s system will have a nominal capacity of 2 megawatts and a maximum output of 6 megawatts, while Siemens’ two systems will have a nominal capacity of 2.4 megawatts and a maximum output of 8.8 megawatts. The name of the storage systems, however, are not yet known.\n\nThere is not yet a price tag for the products, but they will be installed at wind farms and solar power plants, the same way batteries are used for energy storage in homes and businesses. The difference is that the systems will have a capacity of 2.4 to 8.8 megawatts, which is the equivalent of 10 to 35,000 kWh.