"The Nabisco factory is a 12-acre complex that includes a one-million-square-foot cookie-making facility. There are 55 ovens and a 2.5-million-pound flour silo. There is a mailroom, a parking garage, an accounting department, a security force, a retirement plan, a fire department and a full-service cafeteria, where a manager not long ago spotted a man on the lunch line eating a sandwich, a bag of chips and drinking a soft drink.\n\n“My mother would have said he wasn’t using good manners,” Mr. Mickle said.\n\nIn the cookie business, the unheralded ingredients are typically the ones that contribute the most to profits. In Oreos, they are the flour, sugar, baking soda, cocoa and vegetable oil, the same as in other mass-market cookies.\n\nBut they also include hydrogenated vegetable oil, which is where the big money is. With $50 million in revenue a year, this ingredient, known as H.O.V., is by far Nabisco’s most valuable byproduct, and it plays a crucial role in the creation of the secret formula for Oreos.\n\nMost cookies are relatively low in saturated fat. But Oreos are notable for their high levels of it. That is because the oil, a byproduct of soybean oil production, is hardened by hydrogenation to create trans fat, which gives the cookies their characteristic filling and makes them last longer on the shelf.\n\nWhile trans fat is banned by the federal government in foods like margarine, it is still widely used in cookies, crackers and other processed foods, because it extends their shelf life, and that of all the ingredients that contain it, by months or even years.\n\nDr. Mehmet C. Oz, the heart surgeon and television personality, said he considers trans fat to be a poison. In a recent broadcast, he asked, “Why is it still in our food supply?”\n\nThe public has been moving away from trans fat for years. As recently as 2004, the amount of it used in food production was 7.5 million pounds. Last year, that had fallen to about 5 million pounds, according to the Grocery Manufacturers Association. The association, which represents about 300 food companies, has lobbied the F.D.A. to drop the requirement for trans fat labeling, saying the government had made its point.\n\n“We have already done what we can do,” said Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition and public health at New York University.\n\nAdvertisement Continue reading the main story\n\nUnder the rules of the trade group, Nabisco is still allowed to use hydrogenated oil in Oreos, but the company would not disclose how much is used. The company is not alone. None of the major manufacturers of cookies, crackers and other foods containing hydrogenated oil, including Kraft, Kellogg and General Mills, would say how much they used.\n\n“Our position is that we don’t discuss our proprietary formulas,” said Kirstie Foster, a spokeswoman for General Mills.\n\nThe oil makes up the largest component of the cookies’ weight. “That’s the reason they have that nice, big, crunchy mouth feel,” said Richard Baker, a retired food scientist who worked for the General Foods Corporation and helped develop the Oreo.\n\nPhoto\n\nEven as consumers and food companies move away from trans fat, the food industry has been slow to adjust because it is not a primary ingredient in any product, but a valuable byproduct of other ingredients. For instance, an Oreo contains about three parts by weight of flour to one part of hydrogenated oil. So if Nabisco eliminated the oil, it would need three times as much flour to make the same amount of cookies.\n\n“It’s one of those cases where you have to change everything to get rid of it,” Mr. Baker said.\n\nThe F.D.A. has been trying for a decade to get food companies to eliminate trans fat from their products. While many companies have done so, others have been slow to act. In January, the F.D.A. said that it would begin enforcing its rule requiring food companies to list the amount of trans fat in their products.\n\nNewsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.\n\nWhen they moved to eliminate trans fat in Oreos, the company’s scientists spent about a year tinkering with the filling. They tried adding vegetable oil, but that created a more greasy filling. They tried reducing the fat content, but that made the cookies less flavorful and more difficult to push off the assembly line. In the end, they simply removed the trans fat.\n\nThe company would not say how it did that. But, according to former Nabisco employees, the solution is as simple as the formula itself. Oreos have been made with hydrogenated oil for more than 80 years, so the company simply replaces that oil with regular vegetable oil. In doing so, it cuts down on the fat content and gets rid of trans fat.\n\nThey are also made with a secret ingredient, an additive that is proprietary, that stabilizes the cookies, giving them a consistent look and taste. This ingredient is also used in several other Nabisco cookies, including Chips Ahoy.\n\n“When we remove trans fat, it allows us to lower the overall fat content of the product,” Mr. Mickle said. “So now it’s 6 grams of fat per serving, which is right where we want to be, if not a little better.”\n\nAdvertisement Continue reading the main story\n\nLike the old formula, the new Oreo, which will be in stores in early summer, maintains the characteristic “snap, crackle and pop” of the cookie. It has the same crunch, taste and shelf life. And it still contains 3 milligrams of sodium, which Nabisco executives say is half of what is recommended as a daily allowance.\n\nAs the Oreo has changed, the cookie has remained a signature brand, an American icon. It was born in the early 20th century, when the National Biscuit Company introduced the Oreo Biscuit. (Oreo is short for Oreo Biscuit, not Oreos. A cookie is singular.) It was called the Oreo Sandwich Cookie from 1912 to 1952, and then the Oreo Creme Sandwich Cookie from 1952 to 1963.\n\nThe Nabisco snack food line is now so successful that it outsells its main rival, Keebler, by more than two to one.\n\nBut the idea that an Oreo has three layers, the most important of which is the white filling, is not actually true.\n\n“It’s not like we have some supersecret proprietary filling,” said Peter Ross, a spokesman for Nabisco. “The formula for the cookie hasn’t changed at all.”\n\nIn a piece of promotional material, Nabisco describes the filling as “creamy” and “naturally and artificially flavored,” but no one would describe it as the signature ingredient.\n\n“I like them, but it’s the cookie that has always been the hero,” Mr. Baker said. “It’s a cookie, and the filling is just part of it.”\n\nThe success of the Oreo has long been a source of pride at Nabisco, even when things were going badly. When the National Biscuit Company was hit by strikes in the early 1980s, Mr. Baker helped to develop an Oreo knockoff that was still being made in the 1990s. He calls it the “M&M cookie,” for Mary and Mars, the companies that make M&M’s and Snickers bars. The secret to the Oreo is that it is no secret. The formula is an open secret.\n\nBut the formula has always been closely guarded.\n\n“What I would never do is talk about the formula,” said William T. Keough, who ran the National Biscuit Company in the early 1970s. “It was a sacred thing. We would never share it with anyone.”