The 9/11 suspects and the FBI's elite\n\nThere's a new development in the endless story of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and the killing of Osama bin Laden: Allegations that FBI agents on an elite unit violated rules by exceeding their surveillance authority.\n\nIn the latest investigative account, the Associated Press reports that these agents also spent as many as 15,000 hours each — that's five full-time work years — monitoring as many as 5,000 Americans. The AP claims this happened from 2002 to 2008.\n\nThe allegations are already roiling Capitol Hill, and the case could become a major embarrassment for the FBI. Lawmakers are raising questions about why they weren't told sooner, and what kind of surveillance was involved.\n\nThis development has some historical echoes for me. I reported in the 1990s on the FBI's counterterrorism squad, code-named PENTTBOMB, and the challenges agents faced. After 9/11, I investigated problems with the bureau's efforts to recruit translators — a problem it has still not fully overcome. And I reported that one al-Qaeda plotter who slipped through the FBI's fingers was involved in a New Jersey case that also raised privacy concerns.\n\nThe FBI's new problems stem from an agent on the bureau's "transnational" squad. That team was established in 2000 to collect intelligence on threats from groups or individuals abroad, then translate and analyze it for use by FBI agents on domestic crimes.\n\nThe PENTTBOMB squad had been formed after the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, which was committed by an American who used fertilizer and fuel oil to kill 168 people. Among the dead were 19 children, and the blast devastated a federal office building.\n\nAn FBI supervisor suspected an Islamic extremist link, so PENTTBOMB agents were put on the case. The name is a truncation of "pentagon" and "Tower," a reference to the location of the attack.\n\nThe team went on to investigate two other attacks with similar ties: the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa that killed more than 200 people and injured 5,000 more, and the 2000 attack on the USS Cole off Yemen, which killed 17 American sailors.\n\nThe PENTTBOMB team eventually went on to a separate mission: tracking Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda after the 9/11 attacks.\n\n(For a while, the FBI's most prominent post-9/11 agent was John O'Neill, who died in the World Trade Center attacks. O'Neill was on the PENTTBOMB squad and had been the chief of counterterrorism at the FBI's New York office. I spoke with him a number of times in 1998 and 1999. He was brusque, profane and passionate about terrorism.)\n\nA good deal has been written about the efforts to find and kill bin Laden, so I won't"