This spring, The New York Times and ProPublica reported on the deaths of 10 patients who received unnecessarily aggressive cancer treatments at a major cancer center, based on a tip from one former doctor at the center.\n\nWhat’s worse, the former doctor, Dr. Omar Malik, was fired in 2012 after a complaint from a nurse, and sued for defamation by the cancer center, Columbia University Medical Center, in 2013. A federal judge dismissed that case, and Malik sued for the right to tell his story, and won.\n\nIn May, Malik told the story of his firing and his subsequent lawsuit on the NPR show This American Life. The crux of Malik’s argument was that he was doing his job as an oncologist by giving patients the best shot at survival—even if that meant recommending more aggressive treatment.\n\nAccording to Malik, at Columbia, there was a difference between clinical care, which is based on the evidence, and “institutionalized oncology,” which is dictated by institutions. He said it’s hard to explain to patients that, while he is treating them, “I have to do it within this framework of institutionalized oncology.”\n\n“They just don’t want to hear that.”\n\nMalik said this bureaucratic dynamic led to a situation in which more patients with cancer are given more treatment than is actually helpful. “It’s not that we’re being intentionally unethical. We just got sucked into it. And there’s very little you can do. It’s so bureaucratic that it’s so hard to say no to anything,” he said.\n\nTo explain why this happens, Malik talked about the incentives of the healthcare system, in which doctors are reimbursed for treatments, not for following clinical guidelines or listening to patients. He also talked about how hard it is to say no to treatment and admit that you don’t have the right treatment for a particular patient.\n\nMalik said that one of the biggest barriers to treating cancer patients more effectively is that we think of cancer as a one-size-fits-all disease, and we don’t think about it as a group of different diseases. “They’re different,” he said. “There’s multiple different types of breast cancer, there’s multiple different types of colon cancer. And just because one person has colon cancer doesn’t mean that everyone else has colon cancer.”\n\n“These aren’t little, trivial details. They are major, major details.”\n\nThe fact that each type of cancer is different is not new. But until recently, when it came to cancer treatment, doctors were often encouraged to treat them the same, despite all the evidence that that doesn’t work. A study published in the journal JAMA Oncology last year found that, based on five different types of cancer, 80% of patients could have been spared chemotherapy had their treatment been tailored to their tumor’s characteristics.\n\n“If you think about it, it doesn’t make any sense. Why would you not take into account the type of cancer that a person has? Why would you treat all lung cancer the same way?” Malik said.\n\n“These aren’t little, trivial details. They are major, major details.”\n\nMalik said one of the challenges of being a doctor is that it’s easy to get sucked into the idea that the treatments we have now are the best that we can do.\n\n“We assume that all this is correct and all these ideas are correct. We assume that there’s nothing better,” he said. “And what you realize is that that is not true.”\n\nMalik also talked about how, before he was fired, he got a rude awakening about the reality of working in cancer medicine.\n\n“There was a point where I had to start using the books, and I had to start looking into things,” he said. “I thought I knew everything.”\n\nAfter Malik left Columbia, he went on to write a book called “A First-Rate Madness: Uncovering the Links Between Leadership and Mental Illness.” The title refers to the idea that many great leaders, like Abraham Lincoln, Winston Churchill, and Franklin Roosevelt, suffered from mental illness.\n\nThe concept of “First-Rate Madness” comes from the book Leaders on Leadership: Conversations with America’s Best Leaders, published by the Harvard Business School in 2007.\n\n“The premise is that for every great leader that exists, there’s a real chasm between the apparent qualities that they have and the real qualities that they have. And in many cases, their strengths come from their very unique weaknesses,” Malik said. “I was really intrigued by that idea, and I thought, well, we have so many examples of these.”\n\nMalik also talked about the link between mental illness and leadership. “In many cases, it’s actually an advantage. So Abraham Lincoln’s depression enabled him to be a great leader,” he said.\n\nFor this reason, Malik’s conclusion about the way cancer medicine works is in some ways a hopeful one: “Cancer isn’t a battle to be won. It’s a condition that you can live with. And that’s a really empowering thought, that cancer is something that’s not a win-lose situation. It’s a way to live with this condition.”