President Obama’s pledge to double the size of the U.S. Export-Import Bank, whose loans are the key means of stimulating exports for U.S. firms, is in deep trouble.\n\nWith a majority of Senate Republicans already lining up in opposition to its expansion, the most important champion of the bank in Congress has come out against it. In a statement Friday, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) said he would oppose an increase in the bank’s lending limit without reforms to make it more transparent.\n\nHensarling is the author of a controversial proposal that would overhaul the bank’s funding model by replacing its current direct line of government-backed credit with a mechanism more in line with how private banks operate. Though his plan has won bipartisan support in the past, the White House has repeatedly refused to endorse it.\n\n“As a result,” Hensarling said Friday, “I will not support the president’s requested two-year extension of the Ex-Im Bank’s charter unless and until the House adopts the Financial Services Committee’s recommended reforms.”\n\nHensarling’s decision is a serious setback for the White House, which is eager to use the bank as a tool for fighting global warming by encouraging U.S. firms to export climate-friendly goods like solar panels and wind turbines to developing countries.\n\nIt also raises the stakes for the larger debate over free trade, which is set to heat up this spring as Obama makes his push for a free-trade deal with Europe.\n\n“As one of the top ten exports destinations for U.S. goods, the U.K. should be front and center in the president’s push to double exports,” Christopher Wenk, head of the U.S. international trade association representing European companies, told The Guardian.\n\nAfter a series of political setbacks, the White House is running out of time to get its way on trade.\n\nLast week, after a planned vote on a fast-track trade bill was postponed in the House, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) warning him that Democrats would oppose a trade bill until they received assurance from him that he would allow an amendment on a controversial abortion funding measure.\n\nHouse Democrats have been demanding such an amendment for years, but have previously agreed to delay it in exchange for Republican votes on trade bills. But in the wake of a flood of bad headlines for the Export-Import Bank, that bargain has fallen apart.