"Summary\n\nThis story starts out with 16-year-old Lia who’s new to the high school. A boy named Kellan, who is considered the most popular kid in school, starts flirting with Lia right away. He tells her she’s the most beautiful girl he’s ever seen and offers to be her boyfriend. Lia accepts, even though she knows they are from completely different worlds. He is the rich son of a popular doctor and she is a social outcast. She knows she will never fit in with his friends or at school. She doesn’t care though, because she is totally infatuated with Kellan.\n\nShortly after Kellan, Lia meets the “Crazy Eight”, a group of misfits, who have all suffered at the hands of bullies. She learns that all of them have “curse” and they all go to Lia for advice on how to handle it. Lia soon learns that they all have a gift that goes along with their curse. The curse allows them to break the laws of nature and bring the dead back to life. After this, they all soon become inseparable and form a secret society called the Ouroboros Society.\n\nThroughout this story, Lia learns that there are also creatures that want to destroy the Ouroboros Society. There are creatures known as “Sidhe”, who are otherworldly beings that can bring people back to life. The Sidhe want to use the power of the Ouroboros Society for evil. Also, there are other creatures called “Crimson”, who want to use the power of the Ouroboros Society for their own purposes.\n\nLia also discovers that her mother is alive, but has no memory of anything that happened to her since the night Lia’s mother went missing. Lia’s mother has been living in the woods, in a cabin with a man named Jonathan. She also has a baby named Owen. Lia is happy to have her mother back, but she soon finds out that her mother is addicted to drugs. Jonathan is also an addict and he has been giving Lia’s mother drugs in order to control her. Lia goes to great lengths to try to help her mother and eventually succeeds.\n\nLia and her friends soon discover that the Ouroboros Society is a lot more powerful than they could have ever imagined. They learn that they are the “Saviours” and have the power to bring the dead back to life, but this only lasts for five minutes. Lia eventually finds out that the reason her father has been away so much was because he was working as a secret agent for the Ouroboros Society, but his cover was blown and he had to go into hiding. Lia also finds out that her father is still alive, but in bad shape. The Ouroboros Society brings her father back to life and he makes a full recovery.\n\nWhen Lia and the Ouroboros Society finally have the chance to meet with the leaders of the Ouroboros Society, they discover that the leaders are trying to destroy the Ouroboros Society, but they cannot. Lia and the Ouroboros Society must find a way to stop them. They know the leaders are only using them for their own purposes and the Ouroboros Society will cease to exist if they destroy it.\n\nAll of the Ouroboros Society members put their lives at risk to save the society. The leaders are arrested and Lia’s father takes over as the head of the Ouroboros Society. Lia’s father is now the president.