Fey on Fey: An Interview with Chicago’s Swiftian Comedy Troupe “Leaping Laughter”\n\nFey on Fey: An Interview with Chicago’s Swiftian Comedy Troupe “Leaping Laughter”\n\nOur very first story was a comedic one about some residents of a nursing home, “The Saga of the Teakettle of Doom,” which was about the world’s most long-suffering caretaker. And that was the second thing we ever wrote.\n\nWe were terrified of writing stories about the characters in our comic novels, because we were afraid that if we didn’t get it exactly right, people would scream at us for messing up. And that’s not what you want.\n\nWe were terrified of writing stories about the characters in our comic novels, because we were afraid that if we didn’t get it exactly right, people would scream at us for messing up. And that’s not what you want.\n\nSo the first thing we ever wrote that wasn’t a comic novel, the first thing we ever wrote that was a real story, was a comedic story. And it was a great experience for us, because the best you can hope for in a comic novel is that people laugh out loud and get excited about it, and you can never really tell. So the idea of doing something that you could actually gauge, where people could get up and leave if they didn’t like it, was a very valuable experience for us, and it turned out that people did like it.\n\nOur very first story was a comedic one about some residents of a nursing home, “The Saga of the Teakettle of Doom,” which was about the world’s most long-suffering caretaker. And that was the second thing we ever wrote.\n\nSo the idea of doing something that you could actually gauge, where people could get up and leave if they didn’t like it, was a very valuable experience for us, and it turned out that people did like it.\n\nHow did you and your wife meet?\n\nSo the first thing we ever wrote that wasn’t a comic novel, the first thing we ever wrote that was a real story, was a comedic story. And it was a great experience for us, because the best you can hope for in a comic novel is that people laugh out loud and get excited about it, and you can never really tell. So the idea of doing something that you could actually gauge, where people could get up and leave if they didn’t like it, was a very valuable experience for us, and it turned out that people did like it.\n\nHow did you and your wife meet?\n\nWho is your favorite author and what is it that you love about them?\n\nWho is your favorite author and what is it that you love about them?\n\nWho is your favorite author and what is it that you love about them?\n\nWhat inspired you to write “The Kindness of Strangers?”\n\nWhat inspired you to write “The Kindness of Strangers?”\n\nThe idea of a modern day business mogul living in the castle of the Beast and then being confronted with the concept of all the terrible things that had happened there over the years – of him looking over a long dining table and seeing on one side all the characters from Beauty and the Beast who had died over the years. It was a very funny image for us.\n\nThe idea of a modern day business mogul living in the castle of the Beast and then being confronted with the concept of all the terrible things that had happened there over the years – of him looking over a long dining table and seeing on one side all the characters from Beauty and the Beast who had died over the years. It was a very funny image for us.\n\nIt was a funny image. It was like, “Well, he’s rich, he’s got money, he’s rich and he’s a business mogul.” And in that room he has a portrait of the Beast and the Beast is eating an entire goat, and he’s pouring wine on his head, and that was the image that inspired the story.\n\nIt was a funny image. It was like, “Well, he’s rich, he’s got money, he’s rich and he’s a business mogul.” And in that room he has a portrait of the Beast and the Beast is eating an entire goat, and he’s pouring wine on his head, and that was the image that inspired the story.\n\nOur son is one of the characters in the story. And so he was born in October, and we wrote the story in November. And there’s a scene in the story where he has gone missing and his mother is screaming, “Where’s my baby?” And then he comes into the story as the thief, the kidnapper of the baby.\n\nOur son is one of the characters in the story. And so he was born in October, and we wrote the story in November. And there’s a scene in the story where he has gone missing and his mother is screaming, “Where’s my baby?” And then he comes into the story as the thief, the kidnapper of the baby.\n\nAnd he was born in October, and we wrote the story in November. And there’s a scene in the story where he has gone missing and his mother is screaming, “Where’s my baby?” And then he comes into the story as the thief, the kidnapper of the baby.\n\nIt was really cool. It was like, “Wow, we have a kid,” which is terrifying. “What are we going to do?” And then we were like, “Well, why don’t we write a story about it?” And it just kind of happened. It was one of those moments when you just thought, “This is a really good idea.”\n\nIt was really cool. It was like, “Wow, we have a kid,” which is terrifying. “What are we going to do?” And then we were like, “Well, why don’t we write a story about it?” And it just kind of happened. It was one of those moments when you just thought, “This is a really good idea.”\n\nHe’s one of the characters in the story. And so he was born in October, and we wrote the story in November. And there’s a scene in the story where he has gone missing and his mother is screaming, “Where’s my baby?” And then he comes into the story as the thief, the kidnapper of the baby.\n\nWe didn’t think anything was ever going to happen, so we were just writing it for fun. And then one of our friends saw it and said, “This would make a good stage play.” So we started taking it to festivals and festivals would say, “This is hilarious. This would make a great show.” And we’re like, “Oh, yeah, I guess that would make a great show.”\n\nWe didn’t think anything was ever going to happen, so we were just writing it for fun. And then one of our friends saw it and said, “This would make a good stage play.” So we started taking it to festivals and festivals would say, “This is hilarious. This would make a great show.” And we’re like, “Oh, yeah, I guess that would make a great show.”\n\nIt’s been really fun to see people’s reaction to it. When people come up to us and say, “That’s my favorite story of yours,” it’s always really nice to hear. It’s very rewarding.\n\nIt’s been really fun to see people’s reaction to it. When people come up to us and say, “That’s my favorite story of yours,” it’"