"Rideshare companies like Uber and Lyft are under increased scrutiny after a self-driving Uber killed a pedestrian last week.\n\nThey’re called autonomous, but are they ready? It turns out not even close.\n\nYou might be surprised to learn that self-driving technology is more or less as old as the automobile itself. In fact, there are a number of cars on the road today with self-driving features, but they are only meant to assist the driver and not take over completely.\n\nOne such system, called Autopilot, was first launched by Tesla in October 2015. The main feature allows the car to drive itself on a highway, but it’s still supposed to be monitored by the driver.\n\nUnfortunately, Tesla and Elon Musk have become a lightning rod for scrutiny after an accident last week that killed a Model X driver using Autopilot. A series of emails have revealed that Tesla has attempted to make it clear that Autopilot is not a “self-driving” feature.\n\nIn a recent letter to shareholders, Musk wrote, “When used correctly, it is already significantly safer than a person driving by themselves and it would therefore be morally reprehensible to delay release simply for fear of bad press or some mercantile calculation of legal liability.”\n\nWhat exactly does this mean? For one, this was an admission that the technology was not yet ready for public consumption.\n\nTesla is also being called to answer to whether or not the driver should have known that he was using the Autopilot feature. The company says the driver would have known since he was sitting in the driver’s seat and the car’s steering wheel was not in a locked position.\n\nA photo taken by a witness has been released, showing the driver looking down at something with his hands not on the wheel.\n\nThe automaker has since issued a recall to fix the issue and said it will be updating the Autopilot system to ensure that drivers stay engaged with the vehicle’s operation.\n\nUber said it will be disabling the self-driving feature in its fleet of Volvo XC90s after one of its vehicles ran a red light in San Francisco last week, killing the woman. The car was in self-driving mode and the Uber employee behind the wheel wasn’t able to take control of the vehicle in time.\n\nTesla and Uber are not alone in pursuing self-driving cars. Most automakers have some form of autonomous vehicle in the works, as well as companies like Google and Apple. Tesla is still the only automaker with a Level 5 vehicle that has no steering wheel or pedals, however.\n\nAccording to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Google’s self-driving cars have only been involved in 11 accidents over the course of 1.5 million miles of driving, but most were caused by human error.\n\nGoogle has said that the biggest hurdle for self-driving cars will be the creation of a trust between car owners and their vehicle. To that end, the company has been testing a number of prototypes over the last several years, which they claim have driven millions of miles without causing any accidents.\n\nVolvo has been developing its own version of an autonomous vehicle for some time now, but the company is not going at it alone. They’ve partnered with Uber, which bought some XC90 vehicles from Volvo, to run a fleet of self-driving Volvos for ride-hailing in Pittsburgh, where Uber’s research center is located.\n\nWith the recent incidents involving Tesla and Uber, the questions of what’s right and what’s safe have only been heightened. Tesla is going to fix the problem with its Autopilot system and Uber is pausing its own self-driving testing, but it’s clear that these vehicles are a long way from being ready for mass adoption.\n\nWill the driverless cars revolution ever happen? The answer seems to be a resounding yes, but it won’t be anytime soon.