Efren Castillo on Boxing\n\nWith the recent announcement of Canelo Alvarez vs. Gennady “GGG” Golovkin and Vasyl Lomachenko vs. Nicholas Walters for May 2, the sport of boxing is picking up some good steam. On Saturday, Danny Garcia and Robert Guerrero will be fighting in the co-main event of the Alvarez-Kovalev undercard, and they are both in the top five of my pound-for-pound list. The winner of this fight will be the mandatory challenger to Keith Thurman for the WBC welterweight title.\n\nThis fight is just one example of how competitive boxing has been in recent years. There are so many great fighters that we could have one of the best years in boxing in recent memory. But before we go any further, let’s take a look at the four fights that were announced this past week.\n\nFor Alvarez-Kovalev, it was the best fight that could have been made at this time in boxing. In the beginning of 2015, the year started off great with Miguel Cotto vs. Canelo Alvarez, which was supposed to be one of the best fights of the year. But instead, it was a non-event and was a flop. Both fighters looked bad, and the fans were disappointed. That being said, the promoters realized that Cotto vs. Alvarez II would not do great numbers, so a rematch was out of the question.\n\nWith Cotto leaving Top Rank, there was a gaping hole in the middleweight division. Alvarez wanted to stay at 154 pounds, but the only option for him was to go up to 160 to fight the middleweight champion Gennady Golovkin. But with Golovkin only having one fight in 2016, and the third bout against Martin Murray in March, the timing could not have been any better for this fight.\n\nWhile the fight is taking place in Las Vegas, it should not hurt the Mexican fighter. The best fights involving Mexican fighters in Las Vegas have always been ones where the opponent is big in name and popularity. Alvarez has already faced Floyd Mayweather, Erislandy Lara, Alfredo Angulo, James Kirkland and Miguel Cotto. He has had two pay-per-view fights in Las Vegas, and he has never been hurt by the size of the city or venue.\n\nAlvarez is favored to win this fight, but that could all change if he loses to Golovkin. For those that don’t know, boxing fans can be ruthless, and one loss can change everything. But in the end, the fans and the boxing industry will be the biggest winners in this fight.\n\nThen we move on to Lomachenko vs. Walters. These two fighters have two of the most awkward and beautiful styles in boxing. With Lomachenko being at 122, and Walters being at 130, this is a fight that could not be missed. Walters will be giving up eight pounds to the Ukrainian, but that is not a huge factor in this fight. Lomachenko is only about 1.5 inches shorter than Walters, and he is naturally taller.\n\nThe big difference between these two fighters is the lack of power by Walters. He has knocked out 34 out of his 35 opponents, but his most recent fight was against IBF super featherweight champion Miguel Berchelt. Walters could not KO Berchelt, and he lost a 12-round decision. Walters does not have a huge knockout percentage, and Lomachenko does not get knocked out. So it will be interesting to see how this fight plays out.\n\nThe fight that I am looking forward to the most is Garcia vs. Guerrero. These two fighters are very competitive in their division, and they are both in their prime. Garcia has already had two losses this year, but they were to Shawn Porter and Keith Thurman. Those two fights were competitive and competitive in style. But Garcia showed heart and talent in both of those fights.\n\nGuerrero is coming off of a very exciting win over Andre Berto in November. He was hurt several times in the fight, but he pulled out a split decision. Garcia is coming off of a draw with Porter in March, and he is currently ranked No. 3 by the WBC. While Guerrero is ranked No. 4, he has the ability to beat Garcia. Both fighters are fairly similar in style, and if Garcia is smart, he will win this fight.\n\nThe last fight is a big one: Nicholas Walters vs. Vasyl Lomachenko. I am hoping that this fight does not happen until 2018. The reason is because Lomachenko has a fight with Guillermo Rigondeaux on Dec. 9, and Walters is fighting in March. I want to see both fighters in top condition in this fight. With a possible date of April 28, 2018, it will give the fighters plenty of time to prepare.\n\nI believe that this fight could possibly happen before the end of the year. With Walters fighting on March 4 against Jason Sosa, and Lomachenko fighting on Dec. 9, it could set up this fight for the end of the year. Both fighters are on HBO, and the boxing industry will be happy if this fight takes place. Walters has already fought Lomachenko once in 2013, and Lomachenko is undefeated since that fight.\n\nThe only fight that I am looking forward to more than this one is GGG vs. Alvarez. But this is the second most anticipated fight of the year for me. Walters has proven that he can fight great fighters, but he has not faced anyone that could compare to Lomachenko. Walters was supposed to fight Miguel Marriaga on Nov. 26, but it was cancelled due to his weight.\n\nFor Lomachenko, he has had two tough fights against Guillermo Rigondeaux and Jason Sosa, and they have both been challenging fights for him. Lomachenko has fought great fighters such as Nicholas Walters, Gary Russell Jr., and Orlando Salido"