""The world is getting warmer, and I am getting hotter," Victoria Arlen told the audience at a fundraiser in New York City for her Swim Across America Foundation. Arlen, who was born with cerebral palsy, has already swum across the English Channel and the Catalina Channel. She wants to raise money for kids with disabilities to help them get into sports. It was a great way to bring attention to a worthy cause, with an awesome athlete telling a story that's about more than her. That's a good thing.\n\nArlen's efforts are raising awareness, but they're also raising eyebrows. Some people wonder whether her swimming exploits are anything more than swimming feats. One of them is CrossFit.com, a website that contains, among other things, articles on the world of competitive fitness. In an article titled "Victoria Arlen and the age of weaponized privilege," author Allison Geswein made some valid points about the way Arlen is being supported by people with money, but used them to promote her own opinions about who should be able to have access to athletic activities. She also didn't seem to want to understand what it was like to be Arlen, but instead wished that Arlen had been born with more normal physical capabilities.\n\nShe wrote, "This is a girl whose physical condition is so obvious she gets a special gift at the ESPY awards. And people do not hesitate to declare her brave, and inspirational. Her experience is the exact opposite of the only athlete I ever saw in person who got a standing ovation at an ESPYs — Army Lt. Dan Choi. Choi's obvious struggle was because of what he stood up for, while Arlen's obvious disability is overlooked in a story about what a badass she is."\n\nGeswein is concerned with what she calls "weaponized privilege," the idea that certain people with resources can be so over-the-top supportive of an athlete that they create a scenario that isn't fair to the rest of the field. She's concerned that the push to have more diversity in sports, and more opportunities for people with disabilities, is being taken advantage of by someone she thinks has no real athletic ability.\n\nGeswein writes, "An elite, but not particularly talented, athlete is using her massive reach on social media to get attention for herself, while claiming she's doing it for other people."\n\nI can see her point, but I disagree with her opinions on Arlen. The truth is that, from my perspective, Arlen has plenty of athletic ability. And not only that, but she has the ability to draw attention to a cause. This week, USA Today published an article in which they called her "one of the most inspiring people in sports."\n\nIt's one thing to call someone inspiring, and it's another thing to say that they're only inspiring. I've seen Arlen in action. Yes, she has a disability. Yes, she has more going on than the average person, and it's going to affect the way she does things. But, so what? So do a lot of athletes. The truth is that people with disabilities, and people who have had health issues, are human. They are not machines. They are not superhuman. They are not robots. They are people.\n\nArlen swims for a reason. She's not the first athlete to swim to raise money for a cause. Nobody is forcing her to do anything. She's doing it for her. She's trying to do what she can. And that's what makes her awesome.\n\nFollow @MadelineChi on Twitter.