Washington (CNN) On his way to a diplomatic crisis with Qatar, President Donald Trump spent part of the day Tuesday praising a trio of Middle East leaders who are strong allies in the fight against ISIS and terrorism, as well as helping to crack down on Iran.\n\nIn the course of a 50-minute speech in Saudi Arabia to a group of leaders of more than 50 Muslim countries, Trump mentioned the names of three leaders: King Salman of Saudi Arabia, King Faisal of Iraq and President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. He described them as "friends" who had "brought calm" to the region.\n\n"This is a battle between barbaric criminals who seek to obliterate human life, and decent people of all religions who seek to protect it. This is a battle between good and evil," Trump said, according to a White House pool report. "If we do not stand in uniform condemnation of this killing, then not only will we be judged by our people, not only will we be judged by history, but we will be judged by God. This is not a battle between different faiths, different sects or different civilizations. This is a battle between barbaric criminals who seek to obliterate human life, and decent people of all religions who seek to protect it. This is a battle between good and evil."\n\nIt's an evolution for Trump, who had attacked the trio of Middle East leaders during the campaign and, after he won, avoided being too complimentary about them.\n\nAnd in the days before his speech, Trump had been on the attack again against Qatar. He had bashed the Gulf country in a series of tweets for alleged "funding of terrorism," which triggered the diplomatic rift. Trump went to Saudi Arabia on his first trip abroad as President.\n\nTrump has backed the Saudi-led boycott of Qatar and threatened "severe punishment" against Doha for its alleged "sponsorship of terrorism," according to a Qatari official who spoke with CNN.\n\nTrump's comments about Salman and Faisal came just after he spoke about the Iran nuclear deal. Trump said it was an "embarrassment to the United States" and called it "one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into."\n\nIt is also not the first time Trump has praised King Salman. After his inauguration, Trump made a phone call to the king. He called him a "very wise person who wants to see things get much better rapidly" and called their relationship "extremely good."\n\nKing Salman was the first world leader to speak to Trump after he was inaugurated, and Salman joined Trump in a visit to a home in Riyadh that was built for families of the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in the US.\n\nSaudi Arabia's King Faisal was assassinated in 1975.\n\nBut despite that history, Trump has only been complimentary about the Saudis, but not in the way some have accused him of being too cozy with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Saudis helped him create the first page in his Middle East policy.\n\nHe praised the Saudis after he won the election, saying, "Saudi Arabia and I get along great." He had spoken about it as a campaign issue, saying in March 2016 that he "would like to protect Saudi Arabia" but that the country is "going to have to help us economically" in the fight against ISIS.\n\nTrump had also said in December 2015 that he was against the "concept of bombing" and was for a strong intelligence-gathering effort instead. He said then, "It is a mistake to bomb the oil fields. You bomb the oil fields, you kill civilians, you destroy the oil fields. They are going to get into something else. They are going to produce and sell it someplace else. It will not be a pretty picture."\n\nAt the time, Trump was being accused of being naive about the region and for giving a nod to terrorists when he questioned whether the US should be spending money and lives to intervene in Syria.\n\nTrump has been criticized for appearing to blame Qatar for the current state of affairs in the region. Some, like the U.S. ambassador to Qatar, have said Trump is trying to improve ties with Qatar in order to fight terrorism.\n\nTrump also spoke during his visit to Saudi Arabia about his support for the monarchy.\n\n"We are not here to lecture. We are not here to tell other people how to live, what to do, who to be or how to worship. Instead, we are here to offer partnership, based on shared interests and values," Trump said. "We are not here to tell other people how to live, what to do, who to be or how to worship. Instead, we are here to offer partnership, based on shared interests and values."