For President Obama’s critics, it was a triumphant moment: His administration’s Justice Department was having to defend a federal court order that would allow the latest group of Texas residents, who were being detained by immigration authorities, to obtain legal representation and gain access to immigration court hearings. The court decision came on the same day the Obama administration issued a memo directing federal immigration authorities to take steps to make sure that pregnant women in detention are provided with adequate medical care and are housed in humane facilities.\n\nThe administration’s actions in Texas and elsewhere are, according to White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest, the latest evidence that the administration is “enforcing the law” when it comes to immigration. In another recent example, in June, the Obama administration ordered federal immigration authorities to defer the deportations of certain undocumented immigrants who had been brought to the U.S. as children.\n\nBut as both the Texas detention and medical-care decisions demonstrate, the Obama administration has been using the power of the executive branch to mitigate the harsh consequences of its immigration policies, particularly in the cases of undocumented women and families. Some of these executive orders are the result of negotiations and political compromise, which are required by Congress’s unwillingness to adopt an immigration reform law. But they have also demonstrated how a president with a different mindset and a different understanding of immigration might be able to effect real change if he or she were in the White House.\n\nSo as the next presidential election cycle moves into full gear, the issue of immigration reform could prove to be an important one. If it does, it will be another of many areas where the Obama presidency will have been a disappointment for progressive activists. But there are plenty of lessons that Democratic candidates can learn from Obama’s missteps and misfortunes in this area.\n\n***\n\nWhile most people are focused on the issue of unauthorized immigration, the president is facing tough questions about his immigration policies regarding the undocumented parents of American children, the undocumented children of American citizens and lawful permanent residents, and the parents of both these groups. These categories of undocumented immigrants have had a rough ride in recent years.\n\nAfter the Obama administration signaled it would scale back deportation efforts in its early years in office, the Department of Homeland Security turned its attention to the nation’s interior and began detaining and deporting undocumented immigrants, many of whom had lived in the U.S. for years, some for decades, and had families. The administration then deported a record number of unauthorized immigrants, with numbers peaking in 2012 at nearly 400,000 removals. (For comparison, there were fewer than 100,000 deportations in 2008 and around 250,000 in 1996.) The administration has deported a total of 2.8 million people.\n\nTo be sure, the unauthorized population has been shrinking. And, as the Pew Research Center notes, for the first time since the Great Recession, more unauthorized immigrants have left the country than entered it. So there’s been a reduction in the pool of those who can be deported. But, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, there are still around 5.1 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.\n\nThe record number of deportations has made the plight of unauthorized immigrants a key issue in immigration politics. Obama critics argue that the president has deported far more people than his predecessors. But according to the Migration Policy Institute, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush also deported significant numbers of unauthorized immigrants—about 2.7 million and 2.8 million respectively.\n\nThe Obama administration has also been criticized for its failure to achieve comprehensive immigration reform in Congress, despite the president’s pledges during his 2008 campaign that he would push such reform if he were elected. (In his first term, he repeatedly pledged to “fix” the system, a pledge he no longer makes.)\n\nCritics on the right argue that the president has not pushed hard enough for reform. But the proposals the administration has put on the table are not as liberal as its critics claim. The president’s most recent reform proposal, for example,"