In 1995, the residents of Mexico had a choice to make. An election was held between a political novice and a political veteran. And that November, the people chose a newcomer, Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de León, as their president. The people had a choice. They could have decided that the government was a mess and the country needed a different leader. But that's not what they did.\n\nIn recent weeks, many people in the United States have been expressing concern over what's happening in their country. Many are asking, "What are we going to do about it?" Many people believe that our government and our nation are in trouble. But I don't believe that the problem is our government or our nation. The problem is us. We have a choice.\n\nIn the United States, there are roughly 31,000 churches of various denominations. (The numbers can vary depending on the statistics you read.) In order for these churches to maintain their tax-exempt status, they must file what is known as Form 1023. The information gathered on this form tells the government how many people attend each church, what their ethnic backgrounds are, and what kinds of programs they have to minister to the community. In one sense, churches that file this form aren't supposed to be doing so in order to gain tax breaks. They do so so that they can receive more grant money from the government. The government is using churches to bring "services" to the community, because the government can't seem to do it themselves.\n\nIt's interesting that churches are required to file this information, but the government isn't required to report their own numbers. In fact, I can't find anywhere where the government is even required to report its own statistics. I can't even find out how many people are employed by the government, and who they are. The U.S. government is the largest employer in the world, but they aren't required to report their own statistics.\n\nIf we as a nation want to see a change, we have to make a choice. We have to choose to tell the government what they should be doing. We have to make a choice to report our own statistics.\n\nI remember when the National Church Council asked us to write letters to Congress asking for increased funding to the Corporation for National and Community Service. The church received a total of 45 letters. 45 letters. From nearly 2,000 people. I can't even begin to fathom what 45 letters would do to Congress.\n\nWe have to make a choice.\n\nJesus said, "As a man thinks in his heart, so is he" (Proverbs 23:7). The people of Mexico had a choice. They could have said, "We have to fix the problem in our government." But they chose to fix the problem in their own hearts. That's the same choice that we have to make today.\n\nSo we have a choice. Let's make the right one.\n\nMike