Photo by Gracie Malley for Cannabis Now\n\nAs California rolls out its new cannabis rules — the most relaxed marijuana laws in the country — state and local law enforcement officials are attempting to implement the new system with an unprecedented blitz of raids on illegal pot businesses.\n\nWith the stroke of Gov. Jerry Brown’s pen, California became the largest state to legalize marijuana for recreational use and the sixth in the nation to make cannabis available to the general public. Yet, the history of cannabis in California has been a long one — and not without its rocky moments.\n\nCalifornia’s medical marijuana laws were first approved by voters in 1996 and ushered in a sea change in cannabis culture and use. Yet even in the heyday of Proposition 215, there were raids on medical dispensaries, law enforcement shutting down shops for violation of local zoning codes and municipal zoning laws, local municipalities levying taxes on dispensaries and even offering up community space in which to open shops.\n\nThe result of these early legislative setbacks? The displacement of a long-established network of dispensaries and cultivators. Those who could no longer get by in the state moved to Oregon, Washington, Colorado and other legal states — essentially exporting the cannabis culture they had created. Now, a new generation of cultivators and distributors are starting businesses in California, with new methods and processes that are a result of the new cannabis industry.\n\nEven as recreational marijuana use became legal in California in January 2018, there has been an uptick in raids of these newly legal businesses, which remains illegal under federal law. In the first week of 2018, there were a reported 26 raids of legal dispensaries in the Bay Area, with 25 arrests and the seizure of $16,000 in cash and seven pounds of cannabis.\n\n“Law enforcement is going to go after illegal operations in any case,” said Sean Donahoe, executive director of the California Cannabis Industry Association. “These folks who are doing illegal activities, that’s something they have been doing all along.”\n\nIn California, the rules on commercial cannabis businesses are numerous and complex, he said. The fact that a business may be operating legally, that doesn’t mean it isn’t being targeted for a raid, according to Donahoe. In order for businesses to get permits to operate legally, they have to first get permits to be established.\n\n“Some of the communities, their local government entities have decided"