The band's creative soul and ringleader, Robert Pollard, reflects on the wild success of Guided By Voices as well as his own triumphs and tragedies.\n\nRobert Pollard — the creative soul and ringleader of Guided By Voices — is a living embodiment of the enduring power of rock ‘n’ roll. Pollard, whose band just released its 15th album, August By Cake, has lived a life that’s been as varied as it has been eventful. From crafting classic lo-fi pop records and guiding his beloved group to victory after victory for over two decades, to overcoming multiple tragedies that threatened to undo him, Pollard has endured and endured well.\n\nFrom rock ‘n’ roll heartbreak to musical triumphs and to the stories of his childhood friends who took their own lives, the tales behind Pollard’s life are as varied as the songs he’s written over the years. They’re full of sweetness, heartache and inspiration — the kind that only music can provide.\n\nHere, Pollard reflects on the enduring and wonderful power of rock ‘n’ roll.\n\nOn being inspired by Bob Dylan\n\n“He made rock ‘n’ roll feel alive to me, you know? He just did things no one else was doing. The first time I heard his music, I was just in awe of it. I thought he was one of the only people doing something different in music and it really inspired me to make a rock band.”\n\nOn working at Tower Records\n\n“I worked at Tower Records on Sunset Boulevard in the Eighties. I was in a band that was signed to a major label and we were going to go on tour. We were going to make our first big move out to L.A. and the band broke up in Pittsburgh. I was heartbroken. I went to L.A. anyway and got a job at Tower and the band started to do really well in Pittsburgh. I started to realize that I was being a moron by working at a job that didn’t have anything to do with music. I should have been playing music.\n\n“Then, I met people that worked at the store — people that worked in the music section — and they were people that were into the same kind of music that I was. They were all very into the new wave thing that was going on at that time and I was very into the punk scene and I was discovering all this underground music. That was a good time because I was discovering so many great bands and all these great people.”\n\nOn putting together Guided By Voices\n\n“I was living in this little house on Cass Avenue in Detroit and I would just record these songs in the basement. I didn’t think anyone would be interested. I just thought I was doing this for myself. Then, people started calling me and saying they wanted to play on the songs and asking if I could make copies of them. Eventually, I had enough to make a record. I was putting the band together around the same time.\n\n“In the beginning, it was just one song. The whole point was to just have one song on a compilation of different artists from Michigan. That was the point of the whole thing. It was like, ‘Oh, that’s fun. That’s really fun. Let’s do another song.’ It just became something else. Then, I started working with the other people. The other people were my friends. My friends were just my buddies that I’d played music with. The first couple of years was just me and my buddies doing these songs. Then, it started to become a bigger thing and we started to tour and it became something else. It just turned into something else. It was an accident that it happened.”\n\nOn his songwriting approach\n\n“My songs have always come from an unconscious, naive place. I really have to focus on a song and work on a song in order for it to have a definite melody or a definite idea. The words, I kind of write more like a novel and I try to write songs that work like a story. When I’m doing them, I’m trying to do it like a movie. I’m trying to think of it in terms of a movie and I’m trying to create characters and set the scenes and tell the story and make it a little bit deeper than what you would normally expect from a pop song. I’m trying to take it to a different level in some ways. That’s always been my goal and that’s always been my style.\n\n“I don’t think I’m trying to reinvent the wheel, I just think that I’m trying to take things that are already in existence and make them bigger and more beautiful and a little more complete. I don’t know. I don’t really try to analyze it that much. I’ve always written songs in the same way and the only thing that’s changed is the way I record them. I used to record them all on a boombox and then, as we went along, we started to get more and more into studio work.”\n\nOn recording songs at home\n\n“I like to record in a place that’s not a studio. I’ve always liked to record in a place where I could have access to as much stuff as possible. I really enjoy it when I have a lot of cool things to play with. I always like to record at home. I think it’s important to make the place you record at like a laboratory, you know? I like to have it be a lab. If I could, I’d have every piece of equipment ever made and be able to put it all in one room and be able to experiment with every sound I could possibly make. It’s so much fun and it’s so much work at the same time, too. I love it.”\n\nOn his songwriting process\n\n“The way I work, I just keep track of my thoughts and feelings. I think about it when I’m walking or when I’m eating or I’m just doing stuff. I just keep track of stuff and I write down a lot of notes and I try to pay attention to things. My life is so boring, really, you know? I don’t do anything that exciting. I just pay attention to things and I think about stuff and I write down little ideas. I do that all the time. I write little ideas all the time and I just try to remember them and try to put them in a folder.\n\n“It’s kind of like a filing system. The filing system is in my head. I try to remember everything I think about and I try to write it down and then, eventually, it becomes a song. Then, I try to look at the songs that are done and I try to pick the ones that seem to be the best and start thinking about them in terms of a story or a character or a scenario or something that would be entertaining. I have to think about all the things that are going on in my life and try to piece things together like a collage.\n\n“Then, when it comes to the recording, I’m thinking about the whole thing as a complete package. I’m thinking about the sound of it and I’m thinking about how I’m going to mix the album and everything. I’m thinking about the lyrics and the voice. Everything is kind of part of a bigger thing and the sound and the performance is really important.”\n\nOn keeping it simple\n\n“It’s easier to write when you’re just keeping it simple. When you start to complicate things, it becomes too big of a thing to think about. That’s when the song becomes too precious and you can’t finish it or you start getting scared of it or something like that. Then, you get caught up in the emotion of it and you can’t do it. You have to remember that it’s just something you’re doing to pass the time. It’s just something you’re doing for fun. That’s what it is for me. It’s just fun. I’m not trying to be any big shot or anything like that. I’m just trying to do something that’s fun and I’m just trying to make something that’s going to give me some satisfaction. I’m just trying to do something that’s going to be fun to listen to and fun to make.”\n\nOn his songwriting being like therapy\n\n“Yeah. I’m not trying to be a serious writer or anything like that. I’m not trying to be pretentious at all. I just want to make a record that I’d like to listen to.”\n\nOn the joy of performing\n\n“It’s a good feeling, you know? There’s something very satisfying about it. You just can’t stop it, you know? I’ve been doing it for so long and it just doesn’t go away. You can’t stop it. I just keep on doing it and I can’t stop it. I think that’s the reason why I do it, you know?”\n\nOn discovering The Beatles\n\n“The Beatles made