Elliot Lake Mall\n\nThe Elliot Lake Mall was a regional shopping mall located in Elliot Lake, Ontario, which closed in April 2012. At the time of its closure it was the oldest mall in the province of Ontario, opening in 1967.\n\nIn June 2012, the roof of the mall collapsed.\n\nConstruction of the Elliot Lake Mall was completed in 1967, making it the oldest mall in the province of Ontario. The mall was one of two major projects in Elliot Lake that year, with the Elliot Lake General Hospital being the other. In 1986, the mall underwent a major expansion, expanding the number of retail units from 40 to 90, as well as doubling the size of the food court. At its peak, the Elliot Lake Mall had 100 retail stores and two anchor stores, Sears and Zellers, with an office for the mall's manager above Sears. However, when Zellers closed its doors on December 19, 2012, the mall's fate was sealed.\n\nOn June 23, 2012, the roof of the Elliot Lake Mall collapsed as a result of a large hole forming in the roof. The mall was subsequently closed indefinitely. The collapse led to a criminal investigation, as the roof had only a five-year lifespan and it was only five years old at the time of the collapse. On September 12, 2012, a $28-million class action lawsuit was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice by former mall tenants, accusing the mall's owner, Bob Nazarian, and the mall's engineering firm of negligence. The owner of the mall stated that the hole in the roof was caused by vandalism, and announced plans to rebuild the roof. On September 24, 2012, the City of Elliot Lake filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Ontario against Nazarian, seeking damages in the amount of $1.2 million. The City's lawsuit cited a litany of repair orders over the past few years for safety issues in the mall, and alleges that Nazarian failed to maintain the mall in a safe condition.\n\nIn November 2012, the owner of the Elliot Lake Mall released a statement to the media stating that plans were in place to remove the damaged sections of the roof and begin repairing the mall. This statement was followed by a class action lawsuit by former mall tenants on December 12, 2012. The lawsuit alleged that the mall was a death trap, and claimed that Nazarian was aware that the roof was dangerously unsafe but refused to take any action to make repairs. On December 17, 2012, Zellers, the last remaining anchor tenant, was locked out of the mall after their lease expired and they refused to pay a rent increase. The next day, the locks on the doors were changed and security guards were hired to guard the mall.\n\nOn December 19, 2012, Zellers closed its doors, leaving the mall vacant. On January 9, 2013, the province of Ontario ordered Elliot Lake Mall to be vacated due to safety concerns. The government stated that Elliot Lake Mall had become a public safety hazard due to the continued deterioration of the building, which was being caused by the presence of water and moisture. The government said that the building was still structurally sound, but added that the water and moisture was leading to the deterioration of the building.\n\nOn April 5, 2013, the City of Elliot Lake ordered that all residents within a radius of the mall evacuate, due to the risk of another roof collapse. A survey of the mall by experts from the United States Geological Survey and the University of Western Ontario determined that the roof was in a state of "severe distress". A report by the surveyors stated that, "A collapse of the roof of the shopping centre would be expected to generate a potentially deadly and damaging blast event". The report went on to state that if another collapse were to occur, it would likely result in a blast event which would cause "considerable property damage" and would most likely kill anyone in the immediate area. The report also went on to recommend that no one enter the building.\n\nFollowing this report, the owner of the mall announced that he had been given the go-ahead by a demolition expert to begin tearing down the portions of the roof that had collapsed. In an interview, the owner stated that he was unable to have the entire roof demolished due to the presence of asbestos in the roof. The owner also added that, due to a strict $300,000 budget that he had been given to demolish the roof, it would take several months to complete. He went on to say that the demolition would likely be completed by the end of the summer, but the mall would remain closed until he received the $14 million needed to complete the project.\n\nOn September 24, 2013, the owner of the mall made the decision to demolish the structure. Asbestos abatement, asbestos removal, and hazardous materials removal was conducted from October through December 2013, and demolition was completed in February 2014.\n\nIn January 2018, a new 25,000 square foot retail building was opened. It is the first of several new developments in the revitalization of Elliot Lake's downtown core.\n\n\n