Trading on low-volume days in the market could incur substantial slippage. People who make trades — especially large trades — on low-volume days often will not find many partners on the other side of the order book willing to make that trade. The result is that they could end up paying much more for the trade than expected, incurring slippage in the process.\n\nAt this point, you have narrowed down your list to a few cryptos that have a good potential for profitability. But you need to narrow down further and find the ones that have the potential to take-off faster than the rest. That’s why you need to keep in touch with the news. Check out crypto news from different sources to determine, which of the cryptos you have in your bucket-list have some interesting news coming up.\n\nThe cryptocurrency market is insanely volatile in 2018. You can make a fortune in a moment and lose it in the next whether you trade Bitcoin, another coin, or the GBTC Bitcoin trust. Consider mitigating risks, hedging, and not “going long” with all your investable funds. TIP: If you trade only the top coins by market cap (that is coins like Bitcoin Ethereum), or GBTC, then the chances of losing everything overnight are slim (not impossible, but slim). Other cryptocurrencies are riskier (but can offer quick gains on a good day).\n\nBitcoin Trading in Tight Range With Lowest Volatility in Months There Was a Major Bug in Bitcoin’s Code, but Developers Fixed it International Bitcoin Transfers 1,000s of Times Cheaper than Banks The CNBC Fast Money Counter Indicator Bitcoin Flash Crash at Cboe XBT Expiration Date; Most Alts Refuse to Panic BTC is Trapped Under Some EMAs and Has Been Most of 2018 GBTC and ETCG Premiums are Melting Off Morgan Stanley To Offer Bitcoin Swap Trading Winklevoss Twins Launch World First Regulated Stablecoin, and It’s Ethereum-Based Goldman Sachs CFO says Bitcoin Trading Desk Rumor is “Fake News”\n\nIf you have an account on Poloniex.com or Bittrex.com (and other crypto exchange sites) you can use their API with TabTrader to easily trade and monitor prices on your phone. It's important to me that the app connects to Poloniex and Bittrex because these exchanges have good volume. And they're pretty credible. TabTrader supports other major exchanges too :)\n\nThe ICON technology (ICX) is incredibly exciting because it aims to harbor the single largest decentralized global network. It aims to provide its users a certain degree of connectivity between countries and cultures around the world that’s currently just not possible or non-existent. This network gives way to businesses and individuals to communicate, transfer, deposit, and in many different ways cooperate with each other in a never seen before way. ICON shows extraordinary potential for the future, but it’s already boasting a large community made of reputable security institutions, banks, hospitals, insurances, universities and institutions in many other sectors. Crucially, ICON is NOT yet tradable in South Korea – when that changes I expect this coin to moon.\n\nWhen Bitcoin forks into a new cryptocurrency… everyone gets free coins. When Bitcoin Cash was created, everyone holding BTC got 1 Cash for every BTC they had. Next time Bitcoin forks this will be true again. NOTE: Forks can be confusing; if you aren’t in the fork for the capture date (which isn’t always clear) you don’t get the free coins. DO NOT CHASE FREE COINS (see next point).\n\nI am new to crypto currency trading – having been a bonefish, permit and tarpon guide in the Caribbean- I am truly outside my knowledge base.. I figured out how to set up an account on Coinbase, buy on Binance and make some money. What I can’t figure out is how to get my money out of Binance. Example how do I get Tron into Bitcoin and over to Coinbase. It keeps asking me for a Tron wallet. And how can I move my coins off the exchange into an account I control and not have to sell them / convert them to get them off or out of Binance?\n\nBitstamp is a European Union based bitcoin marketplace founded in 2011. The platform is one of the first generation bitcoin exchanges that has built up a loyal customer base. Bitstamp is well known and trusted throughout the bitcoin community as a safe platform. It offers advanced security features such as two-step authentication, multisig technology for its wallet and fully insured cold storage. Bitstamp has 24/7 support and a multilingual user interface and getting started is relatively easy. After opening a free account and making a deposit, users can start trading immediately. Check out the Bitstamp FAQ and the Fee Schedule\n\nA long-term investment is one where you expect a cryptocurrency to perform better over a longer period of time. Simple! Normally, the minimum time for long-term investment is 6 months to 1 year. Although, some people plan to hold onto their investments for 5-10+ years. It’s up to you how you choose to invest; you can either make your full investment in one go, or you can invest at different times.\n\nTechnical analysis is the study of past price patterns. This will allow us to identify opportunities for profit. The cryptocurrency market, maybe more than any other market, has a herd mentality. The tendency, especially with inexperienced traders, is"