"4.8 Overall 544 Reviews View All By Rating 5 Star 71% 4 Star 26% 3 Star 2% 2 Star 0% 1 Star 0% By Category Overall 4.8 Value 4.7 Performance 3.7 Style 4.0 Comfort 4.2 Fuel Economy 4.6 Reliability 4.7\n\n2004 Toyota Corolla - Would recommend Ashley Raytown, Missouri Overall 5.0 Value 5.0 Performance 3.0 Style 3.0 Comfort 4.0 Fuel Economy 5.0 Reliability 5.0 2004 Toyota Corolla - Would recommend I love my Corolla. It is in perfect condition and has had no problems in the ten years that I have had it. I like the body style. It is different from other cars. I love the color. It is a light blue. I also love the size. It is not a big car, so it is easy to drive and park. It is perfect for anyone who is new to driving or who does not have a big family. I have three children, and we all fit comfortably. The trunk is a good size for groceries and other purchases. I like the acceleration. It is a fast car, but does not get terrible gas mileage. I have driven it for almost 120,000 miles and have not had a single mechanical issue. I have only had a few electrical problems, such as the windows not working right. I would not trade it for the world. I would... (more) I love my Corolla. It is in perfect condition and has had no problems in the ten years that I have had it. I like the body style. It is different from other cars. I love the color. It is a light blue. I also love the size. It is not a big car, so it is easy to drive and park. It is perfect for anyone who is new to driving or who does not have a big family. I have three children, and we all fit comfortably. The trunk is a good size for groceries and other purchases. I like the acceleration. It is a fast car, but does not get terrible gas mileage. I have driven it for almost 120,000 miles and have not had a single mechanical issue. I have only had a few electrical problems, such as the windows not working right. I would not trade it for the world. I would buy another car like this one in a second. Story When we bought the car, it was very shiny and new. I took my children to school every morning. My children thought that the car was the best thing ever. They had to show it to all of their friends. When we bought the car, it was very shiny and new. I took my children to school every morning. My children thought that the car was the best thing ever. They had to show it to all of their friends. Pros I love the speed, and the gas mileage is great. I love the size of the car. It is a perfect size for me. I also love that it is a Toyota. I have never had any major problems with it. I love the speed, and the gas mileage is great. I love the size of the car. It is a perfect size for me. I also love that it is a Toyota. I have never had any major problems with it. Cons I would like a little more room in the front seat. I would like a little more room in the front seat. 2005 Toyota Corolla - Trustworthy and affordable Jessica KCMO Overall 5.0 Value 5.0 Performance 4.0 Style 3.0 Comfort 4.0 Fuel Economy 5.0 Reliability 5.0 2005 Toyota Corolla - Trustworthy and affordable This car is one of the most dependable vehicles I've ever owned. It has held up wonderfully and has never left me stranded, and I've put many miles on it. It has lots of nice features, such as a sunroof, power windows and locks, great sound system, comfortable seats, and the perfect amount of room. This car is one of the most dependable vehicles I've ever owned. It has held up wonderfully and has never left me stranded, and I've put many miles on it. It has lots of nice features, such as a sunroof, power windows and locks, great sound system, comfortable seats, and the perfect amount of room. Story It has a sunroof which was great fun to use at night when driving with friends. It has a sunroof which was great fun to use at night when driving with friends. Pros One of my favorite features is the air conditioning. The air conditioner always works and keeps me very cool in the summer months, which can get very hot and humid where I live. Another thing I love is the built-in, hidden compartment under the armrest in the back seat, which holds extra items or anything else you want to store. Another nice feature is the power locks. The power locks make locking and unlocking your car very simple and easy, so you don't have to mess around with your keys. One of my favorite features is the air conditioning. The air conditioner always works and keeps me very cool in the summer months, which can get very hot and humid where I live. Another thing I love is the built-in, hidden compartment under the armrest in the back seat, which holds extra items or anything else you want to store. Another nice feature is the power locks. The power locks make locking and unlocking your car very simple and easy, so you don't have to mess around with your keys. Cons My only real con with this vehicle is the size. I find that it's a little small for my family and me. It is great for one or two people or children, but it would be difficult to fit in more than two small children. My only real con with this vehicle is the size. I find that it's a little small for my family and me. It is great for one or two people or children, but it would be difficult to fit in more than two small children. View All Reviews