I know the title of this blog post is rather misleading. It sounds like I’m saying that women’s books are not worth reading. This is absolutely not what I’m saying. I think that women’s books can be just as great as men’s books and vice versa. I just happen to have read a lot of men’s books that I really enjoyed recently, so I thought I would recommend them to you.\n\nI hope you enjoy them as much as I have.\n\n1. Lonesome Dove – Larry McMurty\n\nI think this is probably my favorite book ever. It is such a sweeping story that you don’t want it to end. I still have the book (even though it’s really old and falling apart) and I’ve read it numerous times. I can’t get enough of Gus and Woodrow, and Captain Call. And I adore their “women,” Clara and Newt. I will recommend this book to anyone and everyone that I meet, and I love it so much I will probably read it again.\n\n2. Swimming to Catalina – Lynn Hall\n\nI found this book when I was at a thrift store on vacation. I was looking for a romance novel because they are my favorite books to read. I just can’t get enough of them. But I was shocked to find that this book was a romance book written by a man. It was a romance book in the style of a mystery. I have never read a book like it and I loved every minute of it. The characters are quirky and interesting and the romance is off the charts.\n\n3. How to Lose Friends and Alienate People – Toby Young\n\nThis book was one of my favorite reads last year. I knew the story of this guy, Toby Young, already. I’ve watched him on television and I’ve read some of his books. This one wasn’t a very happy read, though. In it, he details his misadventures with the British press and his life in New York City. The book was extremely funny, but there were also some very serious parts of the story. Toby is a character that I am sure I’ll be reading about for years to come.\n\n4. Lonesome Dove – Robert James Waller\n\nI read this book after reading Larry McMurty’s, but it was a completely different story. In this version, the two main characters are a man and a woman, and they are in their fifties. They decide to drive their herd of cattle across Texas to Montana. As they go on their journey they have many adventures, some are funny, some are serious. The romance between the two main characters was extremely interesting to read about. The last time I read it I was only twelve, so I had no idea what was going on. But I still loved it and I would read it again.\n\n5. The Chocolate War – Robert Cormier\n\nThis is another book that I’ve read multiple times, but I will read it again. The story is about a boy who lives at a Catholic school. His mother has recently died and he is being picked on by the school bully. He begins a “confrontation” with the bully by refusing to sell chocolates on the first day of school. After this, he is forced to join a secret organization at the school and he becomes involved in a lot of dangerous situations. This is one of the books that I recommend to most people, I think. It’s not my favorite, but it’s worth a read.\n\nAnd there you have it! The five books that I am recommending to you today. I hope that you enjoy them as much as I did!\n\nAdvertisements