Lady's Gold\n\nLady's Gold (; literally "Woman-showing Rings") is a 2007 Hong Kong television series produced by TVB and starring Sunny Chan, Kenix Kwok, Esther Kwan and Sheren Tang.\n\nSan Gwai (Sunny Chan) and Sau Mei (Esther Kwan) had always been rivals from a young age. Sau Mei would always bring San Gwai down, even when he was the top student in the class. Sau Mei has always felt that San Gwai had always been a thorn in her side.\n\nDuring a graduation party, San Gwai's father was hit and killed by a car, who was Sau Mei's father. Sau Mei took advantage of the incident and caused San Gwai to be sentenced to prison.\n\nMany years later, San Gwai returns to town. Sau Mei and San Gwai still hold a grudge against each other. The two of them are in the same line of business, jewelry design. Sau Mei runs a jewelry company called Yeung Kwong, and San Gwai works for Tai Pak Jewellery Company. Sau Mei's Yeung Kwong is one of San Gwai's main clients, but it is also his rival.\n\nHowever, the company that Sau Mei works for is facing financial difficulties and is in danger of bankruptcy. In order to save the company, Sau Mei has no choice but to borrow a large sum of money from San Gwai. Sau Mei was so mad that she tried to kill herself. San Gwai stops her and helps her through her emotional breakdown. This changed San Gwai's perception of Sau Mei.\n\nSan Gwai marries Sau Mei for the company's sake, and Sau Mei's father marries Sau Mei's sister for the same reason. Even though the two of them married for their families' sake, they started to care for each other. But San Gwai has another woman in his heart, her name is Kam Ho-Tin (Sheren Tang), a divorcee and a famous jewelry designer.\n\nOver time, San Gwai and Sau Mei develop true feelings for each other. They both try to divorce each other in order to be with the one they love. After divorce, San Gwai marries Kam Tin. Sau Mei is heartbroken and tries to commit suicide again. But this time, San Gwai stops her and proposes to her. Sau Mei is overjoyed.\n\n\n