For many years I have used Storify to collect, curate, and share information I have gathered from across the internet. I have always wanted to be able to search Storify’s search results, which are currently hidden behind a link on the left. For example, I might search for information on the Syrian conflict, and get a few articles to get me started. This will be useful to Storify’s users.\n\nThere are hundreds of millions of social network posts, tweets, photos, and videos on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram, and other sites. Just how easy is it to find relevant content in all this data? Finding relevant content for research, news stories, case studies, and web articles is increasingly difficult, and companies have begun to turn to automated services that offer algorithms to detect relevant content.\n\nWhile big brands and news sites can afford to outsource this, most of us are on our own. Social media aggregators can help us find the gems in the data deluge, but what happens if we don’t know where to start looking? That’s where Storify comes in.\n\nLaunched in 2011, Storify lets anyone create a collection of social media posts, tweets, photos, and videos, whether they’re related to a company, individual, event, or anything else. You can import content from multiple social networks, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube, and mix it with original content, then share the result via Twitter, Facebook, or email.\n\nStorify is now used by tens of thousands of people to collect and share information about companies, organizations, and individuals. The data is usually used for educational and marketing purposes. For example, someone could create a Storify about the brand to help people understand its products, history, and culture. It could also be used to give people an overview of a key individual or event, such as a product launch, conference, or protest. Storify can also be used for research, such as summarizing all the recent social media posts about a brand, campaign, or topic.\n\nMany of us use Storify to collect and share information.\n\nHowever, for most people Storify is still hidden behind a link on the left. If you click on that link, you will see a list of Storifies created by other people, including those you follow and a few recent Storifies. That’s a useful feature, but it’s missing two key components: a search box and individual Storifies.\n\nWhen we launched Poptip Storify, which lets anyone easily create a Storify of tweets, we put in a search box. It’s simple, yet powerful. I can search for a specific hashtag or keyword, and see all the related Storifies in the results.\n\nHere’s a quick example. When Sony announced the PS4 console, they generated a lot of conversation on social media. Here’s what the search box looks like on the Poptip Storify page:\n\nSearching the Poptip Storify page for the hashtag “#ps4” gives me a list of all the relevant Storifies, sorted by the most recent.\n\nAs a result, I can easily see all the recent relevant information about the PS4, and all the related Storifies. I can choose to visit any of the Storifies to see the related tweets, and click on a link in the tweet to go to the website of the tweet’s author. The only limit is my imagination, and the #ps4 hashtag.\n\nIn the coming weeks, I will be introducing a Storify search box on all our social network aggregators. It will be the same simple search box that lets people find relevant tweets using the Poptip Storify page.\n\nIt’s a feature we have wanted to add to Storify for a while, and I’m excited to see the results when we launch it soon. We look forward to hearing what you think, and how you will use the search box.\n\nTo share your thoughts, contact me via the Poptip contact form.