Gregory Porter's vocal delivery is transcendent: we love it when he sings, and we especially love it when he sings old songs, songs that, for whatever reason, have gone undiscovered or unsung for decades. Porter's latest album, Take Me to the Alley, opens with a moody version of "Tears in Heaven," the Eric Clapton ballad that went to No. 1 in the U.K. in the wake of the guitarist's son's tragic death. In the studio, Porter reworks the tune with the help of Branford Marsalis. But even without the celebrated saxophonist, Porter pulls off the challenging ballad with incredible ease, and the results are, like so much of his music, brilliant.\n\nPorter's grasp of standards is no surprise. Born in California, the jazzman is the product of a mixed marriage — his father is African-American and his mother is a Chinese immigrant from Hong Kong. As a boy, Porter learned to love jazz by listening to his father's records of saxophonist Grover Washington Jr. and trumpeter Donald Byrd. He began his singing career with gospel music, however, and it wasn't until the singer's late 20s that he began to study jazz.\n\nAfter an apprenticeship in local San Francisco clubs, Porter moved to the East Coast, where he became the star of the jazz festival circuit. He released his debut album, Water, in 2012. That record, too, was front-loaded with several covers, including Bill Withers' "Ain't No Sunshine." The song won him a Grammy for best Jazz Vocal Album.\n\nPorter's latest release, Take Me to the Alley, follows in the same footsteps. The album is named for a Harlem club where the performer was discovered by a fellow club-goer. Like the standard version of "Tears in Heaven," the record's first track, "Don't Lose Your Steam," is the kind of song that Porter can and does make his own. But Take Me to the Alley is also notable for its inclusion of original material. "I'm Nobody" is the title track, and it's a heartbreaking song of resignation: "I'm nobody / Nobody but me." "Elias" tells the story of the biblical prophet in a way that's simultaneously soothing and haunting.\n\nIt's not all jazz on the new record. Porter delivers two great pop tracks, singing with restraint and sophistication on covers of Bob Marley's "Is This Love" and Roy Ayers' "Everybody Loves the Sunshine." But those songs don't necessarily fit into the album's theme, which is built around Porter's exploration of his own spiritual experience.\n\nPorter doesn't sing of God or the devil, but rather of a longing for peace, which he finds, again and again, in the power of singing. And it's that ability, more than anything else, that makes him so transcendent.\n\n