Minister for Justice and Equality, Charlie Flanagan TD, and Minister for Social Protection, Leo Varadkar TD, today launched a joint campaign in support of the Crosscare Pathways Project, a nationwide outreach service for rough sleepers.\n\nLaunched this morning in Dublin, the ‘Living On The Streets’ campaign aims to draw attention to the fact that there are approximately 1,000 rough sleepers in Ireland. The aim of the project is to help these rough sleepers access the appropriate support services, whether it be residential or non-residential. The campaign highlights the issue of rough sleeping in Dublin city, which is rising at an alarming rate, with an increase of over 40% in the number of people living on the streets since 2013. The campaign’s focus is on raising awareness of this issue.\n\nThe campaign involves advertisements on the city’s LUAS and Dublin Bus, as well as featuring on O’Connell Street, Portobello and Talbot Streets. It also involves the installation of posters across the city, specifically in locations where the homeless are more likely to reside.\n\nSpeaking at the campaign launch, Minister Flanagan said: “Rough sleeping has reached record levels and has become a visible problem in our capital city. The launch of this campaign will increase awareness of the services provided by the Crosscare Pathways Project to rough sleepers, so that they are aware of the options available to them. Rough sleepers should be referred to the services that will best suit their needs. As Minister for Justice and Equality, I am particularly concerned to ensure that rough sleepers are not penalised for begging and sleeping on the streets.\n\n“The Government is determined to prevent and reduce homelessness, to support rough sleepers to exit homelessness, and to prevent homelessness for others at risk. Over €70 million has been provided to support homeless services and prevent homelessness, which includes funding to frontline services such as the Crosscare Pathways Project, who work to prevent rough sleeping by providing outreach support to rough sleepers.”\n\nMinister for Social Protection Leo Varadkar said: “The ‘Living On The Streets’ campaign brings home the reality that the street is a harsh and unforgiving place to be, particularly during the winter months. The response from the public will be crucial if we are to address this problem effectively.\n\n“There are over 1,000 rough sleepers in Dublin city and unfortunately this is a significant increase on previous years. That is why it is so important that we engage the public, using this campaign as an opportunity to highlight the services available to rough sleepers, including the Crosscare Pathways Project. It is a complex problem that requires a complex response, involving a number of different organisations, as well as a societal change in attitude.\n\n“With the help of my colleague, Minister Flanagan, we have increased funding for the homeless to €70 million this year, which will provide more than 3,000 more beds in a wide variety of services. We have also agreed to provide an additional €5 million over the next two years.”\n\nCrosscare Pathways Project is a national organisation with local services based in Ballymun, Jobstown, Dublin city centre, Trim, Waterford and Wexford. It provides a range of services to homeless people and others at risk of homelessness, as well as people sleeping rough, particularly those sleeping on the streets of Dublin. The Crosscare Pathways Project also provides services for homeless people in Carlow, Cork, Donegal, Dublin North, Dublin South and Dublin West.\n\nThe project’s services include outreach services, sleeping bags, socks, warm clothes, food, clothing, showers, laundry and toiletries.\n\nThe campaign is the work of the cross-agency Dublin Central Area Partnership (DCAP), which is comprised of An Garda Síochána, Dublin City Council, Dublin Regional Homeless Executive (DRHE), Dublin Fire Brigade, Dublin Regional Housing Executive (DRHE), Dublin Street Pastors, Homeless Hotline, Irish Red Cross, Samaritans, Simon Community and Street Reach.\n\nThe campaign is supported by a number of major partners including Dublin City Council, Bus Éireann, Dublin Bus, Dublin Airport Authority, Transdev and Luas Cross City.\n\nENDS