On the evening of October 23, 2017, the celebrated actor Will Smith hosted an invitation-only event in Las Vegas, hosted by UNICEF to support vulnerable children around the world. During his remarks, Smith reflected on his recent trip to Madagascar, where he met a family who lost their three children to diarrhea. “When I say my faith was tested, it was tested. You understand? It was like I was in the Bible.”\n\nSmith is a committed Christian. In 2007, when he was named the most bankable star in Hollywood, Smith made the bold claim that he’s the only top-grossing actor who is a professed Christian. At the time, a study by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life found that just 18 percent of Americans consider Hollywood stars to be good role models, and just 10 percent said the same for politicians. “If the group that you are the leader of is viewed that way, you have to examine what you’re doing.” Smith said.\n\nOn this day, Smith was concerned about children around the world who are not receiving the care they need to survive. As he read about the dire need for vaccines, Smith thought about his own two kids, and how helpless he would feel if they were sick and dying. “I can’t imagine what that must be like. So for me, the easiest thing to do is to support UNICEF. Because when my children get sick, it’s my job to get them help, and if they die, they die. I’m not gonna stop that. I’m not God. But when children around the world get sick and die, it’s God’s responsibility. And I have to believe that God will ask him, ‘Are you there?’ And when He says, ‘Yes, I’m there,’ he’ll say, ‘Are you there?’ And he’ll say, ‘I’m there,’ and God will say, ‘Well, why didn’t you help these children?'”\n\nIn one year, UNICEF vaccinates 46 million children against preventable diseases. Every dollar invested in immunization results in $44 saved in treatment. UNICEF reaches children in 190 countries and territories. Each year, with the help of its many partners, UNICEF supplies more than 50 million children under the age of five with immunizations against the six life-threatening diseases: pneumonia, tuberculosis, diarrhea, polio, measles, and tetanus. UNICEF also supports the vaccination of pregnant women in countries where the practice has been shown to prevent transmission of vaccine-preventable diseases to newborns. In addition, UNICEF is the largest distributor of antiretroviral medicines for children and pregnant women with HIV in the developing world.\n\nUNICEF also provides thousands of training opportunities for community health workers to deliver health services to children in their own communities. UNICEF, through its extensive network of child protection partners, also provides psychological support and counselling for children and adolescents affected by violence, abuse and exploitation. For millions of children who would otherwise die, it is UNICEF that saves lives.\n\nIn response to the global refugee crisis, UNICEF is at the forefront of emergency response efforts to help children and families who are fleeing conflict and violence. The agency has distributed more than 1 million emergency packages in Syria, Iraq, Lebanon and Jordan, and has provided over 1.5 million people with emergency supplies including tents, kitchen sets, heaters and sleeping mats. UNICEF has established 41 child-friendly spaces for traumatized children in the region and continues to provide medical and psychosocial support, protection and assistance for refugees.\n\nIn 2016, UNICEF’s commitment to the protection of children in conflict was formally recognized with the Nobel Peace Prize. The Nobel Prize was awarded to UNICEF “for its work for children in developing countries, and for long-standing advocacy in favor of children’s rights.”\n\nThe U.S. and UNICEF first partnered in 1953, to help children devastated by the Korean War. From that time, their relationship has strengthened. In fiscal year 2015, the U.S. government provided UNICEF with more than $77 million to support its humanitarian efforts. UNICEF also works with the U.S. government on a number of global health initiatives. These include ensuring that every child is fully immunized and preventing HIV transmission from mother to child. UNICEF also works with the U.S. government on the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).\n\nThrough PEPFAR, the U.S. government has invested more than $80 billion to combat global HIV/AIDS since 2003. PEPFAR is a cornerstone of U.S. global health efforts, and it is the largest commitment by any nation to combat a single disease. The program provides 11 million people in over 50 countries with lifesaving antiretroviral treatment, and has contributed to a 40 percent decline in AIDS-related deaths since 2004. In fiscal year 2017, the U.S. contributed $4.2 billion to PEPFAR.\n\nChildren born with HIV and AIDS in Africa, including those living in remote rural areas, can now receive treatment. PEPFAR is working to ensure that every child is tested, identified, and started on treatment. New initiatives are also helping to treat HIV-positive mothers and prevent them from passing the virus on to their unborn children.\n\nIn the five years since the Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) was launched, more than 40 countries have invested in the development of a National Emergency and Medical Preparedness and Response Plan. To date, more than 15 countries have published plans. In 2016, the GHSA received a boost when the U.S. committed to invest $1.3 billion through 2020. This funding will support the purchase of 50 million doses of vaccines to help save lives from infectious diseases like"