In the last post we noted that American psychologist Timothy Leary was a part of the CIA’s MKULTRA program. In an attempt to gain a deeper understanding of MKULTRA, let us turn our attention to another figure who made an impact on psychedelic culture, and who also worked as a CIA consultant.\n\nIn 1957 the American author and academic, Aldous Huxley, published The Doors of Perception. The book was to have a profound impact on the counter-culture movement of the 1960s. The book described Huxley’s experiences when experimenting with mescaline, a drug derived from the peyote cactus, which Huxley took under the guidance of his friend, Humphry Osmond. It is clear that the book had a huge impact on figures such as Leary and Timothy O’Leary, an early collaborator of Leary’s. The book is known as a landmark work in the psychedelic subculture, and is the source of the famous quote “The Doors of Perception are opened,” by which many a young hippy gained access to the expanded universe of psychedelia. However, what is less known is that Huxley was a CIA consultant. In fact, Huxley had been connected with the CIA almost from the moment he had arrived in the United States. He was part of the interlocking directorate that we have seen linked to the CIA’s MKULTRA program.\n\nIn the second part of a three part series, we will discuss Huxley’s background and what led him to work with the CIA. We will see that he was connected to figures from the American establishment that ran parallel with the CIA and the MKULTRA program. We will also look at his personal connection to the drug LSD, which he advocated as a powerful tool for mind expansion. We will see how his advocacy of the drug LSD served to bring LSD to the attention of Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert.\n\nDynastic Connections\n\nAldous Huxley was born on July 26, 1894 at 11 Lavington Street, in Hampstead, London. Huxley’s grandfather, Thomas Henry Huxley, was an English biologist and a proponent of Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution. Huxley was related to prominent members of the British establishment and had connections with prominent figures in British politics. For instance, the British poet, Alfred Lord Tennyson was a first cousin of his mother. Aldous’ mother, Julia Arnold, was the daughter of the highly influential British novelist, Mary Augusta Ward. Julia’s father was Richard, son of Sir Thomas Arnold, headmaster of Rugby School, and of a family well connected to the British establishment.\n\nThe Arnold family was connected to Sir Matthew Arnold, the British poet, essayist, and cultural critic. Arnold was an important member of the Pre-Raphaelite movement. He had a significant influence on the Victorian Age and was a friend of the famous British poet, Alfred Tennyson. Sir Matthew was the poet laureate between 1848 and 1869.\n\nJulia’s mother was a follower of the Austrian philosopher, Rudolf Steiner. Rudolf Steiner, born in 1861, was a key figure in the European Theosophical movement, which focused on the spiritual development of the individual. It has been alleged that Steiner was an agent for the German secret service, which would not be surprising given that many other members of Theosophy were in fact spies. A secret society within Theosophy, known as the OTO, which has connections to Western esotericism and German fascism, has been allegedly linked to the CIA. Rudolf Steiner was involved with the OTO. The following excerpt from a Russian government website describes Steiner’s role:\n\n“Rudolf Steiner’s Theosophical activities were closely connected to the “Armenia” Lodge (Br. 310) of the “Ordo Templi Orientis” (OTO), founded in 1910. This Masonic lodge was founded by the Austrian Theosophist Carl Kellner (1851-1905), the head of the lodge from 1902. A regular visitor to the lodge was the German occultist and scientist Theodor Reuss (1855-1923), the head of the OTO from 1922. Reuss, an alchemist, was a follower of Carl Kellner’s.\n\nThe members of the “Armenia” Lodge of the OTO played a prominent role in the life of Rudolf Steiner. They were able to draw on the resources of the Thule Society, which was funded by German industrialists such as Thyssen, Krupp and the Stinnes family.\n\nAt the same time, the theosophical society was run by the “General Anthroposophical Society,” founded in 1912. The members of this society, which also included politicians such as Brüning, Papen and Schwerin von Krosigk, financed the publication of the society’s journal, “anonymous”. Rudolf Steiner was supported by wealthy bourgeois benefactors such as Olga and Alfons Paquet, by “Eva” Rosenstandt (also a member of the OTO), as well as by the publisher Ernst Schering.\n\nSteiner was also supported by the German military and political elite. This support had been decisive in his appointment as honorary professor at the University of Berlin in 1916. Steiner was involved in a scandal at this time. A member of the Berlin University committee had brought accusations against Steiner of forgery and a breach of trust, and was eventually forced to resign. The result was that Steiner retained his professorship. The German writer Ernst von Wolzogen, whose second wife was a member of the “Armenia” Lodge of the OTO, arranged for Steiner to give a series of lectures at the “Mensa Isiaca” Lodge in Berlin. The men’s club was headed by Prince Philip von Hessen, a member of the German branch of the British royal family. Among the members were Kurt von Krockow, Werner Schmiedel, Ludwig Klages and Oskar Hopfer, all close to the Thule Society.\n\nSteiner was also supported by the Dutch-German industrialist Friedrich Rittelhaus, a follower of Guido von List. The Rittelhaus family owned large amounts of stock in the German industrial conglomerate, Hoechst. Rudolf Steiner and his assistants made frequent use of the extensive Hoechst archive. The Hoechst family, who lived at Castle Solitude, were the most prominent supporters of Steiner’s anthroposophy.\n\nIn 1916, during the First World War, a German naval officer and the secretary of the German Embassy in London, Karl Haushofer, came into contact with Theosophy. Haushofer founded the “Fraternitas Saturni,” an occult order which came under the control of the OTO in the 1930s. Haushofer, a friend of Haushofers and a guest at Castle Solitude, founded an important esoteric school in Munich in the 1920s, the “Rosenkreuzer”. This was run by Friedrich Gerber, a follower of Guido von List. Among the members were Adolf von Harnack, Erich Ludendorff, Hans Hirschfeld and Ernst Hellinger, as well as Wilhelm Canaris, the head of the German Military Intelligence Service and a member of the resistance against Hitler. Hellinger was involved in a secret association of the military which was a front for the secret service. Among the members of the group were Haushofer, Canaris, Himmler, Hans von Dohnanyi and Admiral Wilhelm Canaris.\n\nIn 1919, Adolf Hitler, who had just joined the German Workers Party, received his first occult training from Karl Haushofer. Hitler"