Ok, so i don't really like to talk about sex or anything to do with it. But I need to talk to someone so i can figure out what's wrong with me, or to get some sort of advice, or just to see if this has happened to anyone else or not. I'm a 18 year old girl and a virgin. It was never important to me, it was never a huge deal. I guess it just doesn't seem to be a big deal to me, I'm sure that if I had to give my virginity to someone it would be special to me. I just don't care much about it, I'm not all for saving it until I get married but I don't really see a point in going out and having sex to see what it's like. I have never had the urge to have sex, I don't want to experiment with guys, I just want a relationship. Not that I am looking for one, I haven't had a relationship before but I have a feeling that the first time I get in a relationship it will just feel right, and i will just want to have sex with my partner because it just feels right.\n\n\n\nI'm not the type of person to just have sex with any guy, I need a relationship, I need to know that they love me. It's not that I am a slut or anything like that, I just want to feel like they care about me. I am not against having a one night stand, I just don't want to have sex with someone I don't love, and if I were to have a one night stand it would be with someone I love, so we could make love. I have had the urge to have sex before, but not really for the reason of wanting to try it out, but because I think that if I really like a guy it would be something that would be special to me. The problem I have is that everytime I start dating someone I just fall for them and that makes it impossible for me to have sex with them. I have never had sex, I have never even kissed a guy. I'm sure if I had one I would be able to let go of the past and I would love to kiss someone and just be in a relationship. But I have been in relationships before and it never worked out, I just end up falling for them, and I think I know why that is.\n\n\n\nI guess I've always thought that I was going to meet someone and just instantly know that I was going to fall in love with them, and be with them for the rest of my life. I think that I was just waiting for the perfect guy and that it would happen so fast that I wouldn't even be able to stop it. And that's why I think everytime I have gotten in a relationship I have just felt like I am with the wrong person, I don't feel the chemistry. I have never even liked a guy for more than a month and I'm talking about boys that I was in relationships with. I just feel like the perfect guy is waiting for me somewhere and I'll meet him one day and he'll fall in love with me, and that will be it. I just want to love and be loved, I just want someone that makes me feel special and wanted. I don't want to go out and get drunk and get a guy to sleep with me, I just want to find someone who is willing to be with me and love me for who I am.\n\n\n\nI guess that's the main reason why I am a virgin, because I want someone to be able to love me and I am just too afraid to take a chance on someone. I don't really have a problem with having sex or anything like that, I just don't feel like having sex will be worth it if I don't love the person I'm doing it with. That's just how I am, I don't really have a problem with waiting until I am married to have sex, because i would rather wait until I find the right person. And it is because of this that I haven't really had a relationship and it doesn't really look like I will have one anytime soon. So I guess my question is, how do I get over this, and just go out and have sex and stop thinking about the future, because I don't know if this is a good thing or not. I have a feeling that having sex with the wrong person is going to mess me up even more, I just don't know.\n\n\n\nIf anyone has any advice or just some advice on what I can do to get over this please let me know, because I would really appreciate it.