“Be strong, and of good courage; fear not, nor be afraid of them: for the LORD thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee” (Deuteronomy 31:6).\n\nThe battle-scarred commander is giving his parting words to the soldiers under his command. He encourages them to continue in the service of the Lord despite the difficulties and dangers they face. These were the Israelites who left the safety and prosperity of Egypt for the uncertainties of Canaan. Their task was to displace the wicked Canaanites who occupied the land. This was no easy task, and many a valiant warrior fell in the struggle. Still the Lord promised to go before the Israelites and help them defeat the Canaanites and claim the land for their own.\n\nGod had promised to go before the Israelites. This is a familiar theme in the Old Testament. But it is also a familiar theme in the New Testament. Paul told the Hebrew believers in Rome, “Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:” (Romans 5:12). In this statement Paul used two Old Testament examples to illustrate the extent of the power of sin to destroy life. First he noted that the life-giving properties of the soil were destroyed when Adam sinned. In the garden of Eden the ground had yielded to Adam and Eve fruits and nuts of every kind, but after the fall man was forced to work hard for his sustenance. Then Paul cited the most recent Old Testament example: “For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves” (Romans 2:14). The Lord had promised to go before the Israelites to help them drive out the Canaanites from the land of promise. After Adam’s fall God said to the serpent, “And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel” (Genesis 3:15). The serpent’s head was bruised when Christ died for the sins of all men, but the serpent’s head would ultimately be bruised by the Messiah’s heel.\n\nAt the end of the Old Testament era God had to rescue His people Israel from a most perilous situation. The ten northern tribes had refused to obey God’s commands and had rejected His prophets. Because of their sins God allowed Israel to be conquered by the Assyrian army and taken into exile. The Judahites and Benjaminites were spared destruction, but Judah was brought to the brink of extinction. God sent prophets to warn the Israelites of their imminent destruction, but they would not listen to the prophets. In spite of these disasters the Lord promised to go before His people to help them drive out the Canaanites from the land of promise.\n\nThe Israelites under Joshua drove out the Canaanites and occupied their land. But the Israelites were destined to live in a hostile world. The Canaanites had been their neighbors in Egypt. In the land of Canaan they were surrounded by nations hostile to the God of Israel.\n\nIn the life of the New Testament believer there are the same difficulties and dangers. It was never the purpose of God to give His children an easy life in this world. In fact, the Bible says, “Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him” (James 1:12). We must not be surprised by the temptations and trials that are part of the Christian life. “For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth” (Hebrews 12:6). The Lord’s chastisements are part of His discipline, and His purpose in chastening us is not to destroy us but to bring us to maturity.\n\nHow do we endure these trials and temptations? We endure by remembering that we are engaged in the battle of the Lord. It is not our strength that carries us through, but the Lord Himself. “For the LORD thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee” (Deuteronomy 31:6).\n\nIs it easy to trust the Lord with all my cares and burdens? No, it is not easy to trust the Lord with the details of my life, but it is necessary. If we do not trust Him to be our guide, our protector, our helper, our comforter, we cannot live a godly life. We have to trust Him, but we have to do more than that. We have to walk by faith, not by sight. This is not easy to do. There are times when it is very difficult to trust the Lord in the midst of great troubles. We have to take a stand of faith and put our trust in the Lord in the midst of overwhelming trials and temptations. This is the only way to have victory over our enemies and the enemies of the Lord. “Be strong, and of good courage; fear not, nor be afraid of them: for the LORD thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee” (Deuteronomy 31:6).\n\nGod’s promise to go before the Israelites was a promise of victory over the enemies of Israel, and the same promise is made to every believer. God wants His people to know that He will help them overcome every obstacle in the Christian life. The greatest promise that God makes to His people is that He will not forsake them. This promise applies not only to our trials and temptations, but also to our sins and the temptations of Satan. “For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ” (I Thessalonians 5:9). The word “appoint” means to arrange beforehand. It is in the Lord’s providential plan that we are to obtain salvation, and He will arrange for us to have that salvation. The word “wrath” means a dreadful passion. The Lord has not planned for us to experience His dreadful anger. He has planned that we should live in the love and grace of His own presence. The Holy Spirit comes to live in our hearts and abide with us forever. In His own time He will gather us to be with Him forever in heaven. But until that time comes He will abide with us and go before us to help us overcome the enemies of our souls. He will not forsake us.