"Black Bullet episode 13 is another episode to help you understand what’s going on in the plot. After last episode, it seems that almost everyone in the cast has been seen in some way. There are still people yet to be seen, but this is pretty close to the end of the series.\n\nWhat’s odd is that these people seem to all live in Japan. I’m curious as to why these beings are only attacking Japan, or if they attack other countries. It might be that the government has put out some sort of cure for the virus, and so it won’t spread to other places.\n\nThe scenes with the Russian were quite interesting, but then the series fell into the same pacing issue that it had last week. The problem with these scenes is that they feel like filler. Sure, they may be important later, but right now they just feel like they take up time.\n\nThe scene where Rentaro and Tina go to the US was also a bit slow, but it seemed to advance the story. I liked the explanation of the origins of the US now becoming “cursed land”. It gives a little more story to the whole situation, and makes Rentaro and Tina’s mission a bit more meaningful.\n\nThings got a lot more interesting towards the end. That’s when Rentaro and Tina met an adult woman named Kotori. She’s quite an interesting character, and she’s someone I’m sure will have a bigger role in the series.\n\nOverall, this episode was alright. It still felt like the show was missing some information, but I think that may be due to the fact that I haven’t read the manga. Either way, it was nice to see a few more important people be introduced, and the show seems to be coming to a conclusion.\n\nIt’s not really that this show is bad. I’m having a bit of trouble deciding what to rate this. It isn’t bad, and it isn’t really amazing. The thing is, I can’t say I disliked this show. I’ve found myself thinking about it when I was doing other things, so it was interesting.\n\nSo, I’m going to give this show an 7/10. This is because it’s just an alright series. It was fun, but it was just alright. I did like it, but I can’t say that I would say that I loved it. It might be that it’s just not really my style, but that’s okay. There is some pretty big fanservice though, which I’m not really a fan of. That does put me off of the show a bit, and it’s why I can’t really give it a higher score.\n\nAgain, I’m not sure if I want to continue with this show, or just jump straight to the manga. I do feel like I have to keep watching this show though, but we’ll see what happens.\n\nSo, what did you think of Black Bullet episode 13? Did you like it, or are you ready to end this series already? Let me know in the comments, and as always, thank you for reading.\n\nAdvertisements