Independent news is more important than ever. Sign up to get the best of The Nation in your inbox every weekday. You will receive occasional promotional offers for programs that support The Nation's journalism. You can read our Privacy Policy here. Sign up to get the best of The Nation in your inbox every weekday.\n\nThank you for signing up. For more from The Nation, check out our latest issue\n\nSubscribe now for as little as $2 a month!\n\nSupport Progressive Journalism The Nation is reader supported: Chip in $10 or more to help us continue to write about the issues that matter. The Nation is reader supported: Chip in $10 or more to help us continue to write about the issues that matter.\n\nFight Back! Sign up for Take Action Now and we'll send you three meaningful actions you can take each week. You will receive occasional promotional offers for programs that support The Nation's journalism. You can read our Privacy Policy here. Sign up for Take Action Now and we'll send you three meaningful actions you can take each week.\n\nThank you for signing up. For more from The Nation, check out our latest issue\n\nTravel With The Nation Be the first to hear about Nation Travels destinations, and explore the world with kindred spirits. Be the first to hear about Nation Travels destinations, and explore the world with kindred spirits.\n\nSign up for our Wine Club today. Did you know you can support The Nation by drinking wine?\n\nNorth Carolina Republicans are so determined to stop students from voting that they've now introduced two separate bills to accomplish that goal. The first, House Bill 589, requires voters to present a photo ID when voting. (A US Census study showed that 10 percent of North Carolina's registered voters lack a driver's license or a state-issued photo ID.) Ad Policy\n\nThe second, Senate Bill 666, is even worse. Its sponsor, Thom Goolsby, explained that "if you go to the polls and you have a North Carolina college ID, it's not going to work, because the legislature decided we're going to make it harder for students to vote."\n\nGoolsby also offered this remarkable defense of the bill: "I would suggest to you that half of the students voting [are] not residents of North Carolina." This is patently untrue. The only people whose votes are challenged at the polls are those who sign an affidavit affirming that they're eligible to vote, claiming they're not a resident of the state. Goolsby can offer no justification for his claim because no such justification exists.\n\nDemocrats are angry, but the real question is what will North Carolina Republicans do when their bill—designed to reduce the turnout of Democratic voters—proves insufficient for the job?\n\nIn a state that's barely hanging on to a narrow Democratic majority—Barack Obama beat Mitt Romney by just 92,000 votes in 2012—every vote counts. The Republicans' HB 589 is a desperate attempt to skew the vote in their favor. And by targeting students—a group that tends to be more progressive than their non-college-educated peers—they may actually be doing Democrats a favor. But their effort to block students from voting will almost certainly fail. "We have a lot of students who have historically supported Democratic candidates, and that's part of the reason we wanted to bring these bills forward," said Tami Fitzgerald, executive director of the conservative group, the North Carolina Voter Integrity Project.