2010 Spanish Grand Prix\n\nThe 2010 Spanish Grand Prix (formally the XLV Gran Premio de España Telefónica) was a Formula One motor race held on 28 May 2010 at the Circuit de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain. It was the seventh round of the 2010 Formula One season. The 60-lap race was won by Red Bull driver Mark Webber, after he started from second position. Lewis Hamilton finished second for the McLaren team and Ferrari driver Fernando Alonso came in third.\n\nPirelli's prime tyre compound was the hard "primes", whilst the option tyre was the soft "option" compound.\n\nMark Webber took pole position for Red Bull, his first since the 2009 Belgian Grand Prix, while Fernando Alonso set the fastest time in Q2 and qualified second. The two Ferraris filled the next row with Felipe Massa ahead of Kimi Räikkönen. The two McLarens of Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button were fifth and sixth, with Nico Rosberg in seventh place, having struggled all weekend with the handling of his Mercedes. Adrian Sutil in the Force India was eighth, followed by Sebastian Vettel in the second Red Bull and Nico Hülkenberg in the Williams. Paul di Resta, Sébastien Buemi and Michael Schumacher rounded out the top ten. At the start, Mark Webber led away from Fernando Alonso and Felipe Massa while the two McLarens of Hamilton and Jenson Button slipped backwards, with Hamilton eventually being forced to pit with an electrical problem, and Button dropping to eleventh. Mark Webber's race soon went wrong as he came into the pit lane to switch to his wet weather tyres on lap 11, but was told to remain in his pit box as he had not switched off his engine, having forgotten to do so. This meant he was stationary for 23 seconds and dropped to fourth, before recovering to third by the time he rejoined the circuit. He also had to serve a drive-through penalty for passing Alonso on the grass, although he eventually finished fourth.\n\nAlonso and Massa pitted on laps 18 and 22 respectively, rejoining in second and third places behind the McLaren of Lewis Hamilton, who had made an early pit stop for dry tyres and was running a different strategy to the two Ferraris. With the track still wet, Hamilton, Massa and Alonso all switched to the intermediate tyres on lap 25, but at this point, the gap between the top three was only 1.3 seconds. The McLarens of Hamilton and Button were then unable to pass the Ferraris on the drying track and they began to slip backwards, eventually losing their fourth and fifth places to the two Force Indias of Adrian Sutil and Paul di Resta. The latter had passed Sutil on the main straight on lap 30 after the Force India driver had made a pit stop and had a clear track in front of him, and held on to fifth place despite being passed by Sutil a few laps later. The two Toro Rossos of Jaime Alguersuari and Sébastien Buemi were the first of the lead lap cars to pit on lap 28, with Alguersuari dropping behind Rosberg in the standings after pitting earlier than the Mercedes driver. The other Toro Rosso of Sebastien Buemi managed to stay out longer and maintained his eighth place, before making a pit stop at the end of lap 34.\n\nFurther back, Jenson Button was the first of the two McLarens to pit for new tyres on lap 33, with a nine-second stop due to an electronics problem with the wheel gun which meant the front left tyre was not fitted correctly. Team-mate Lewis Hamilton followed suit a lap later and rejoined the race in twelfth place. Button rejoined the race behind Sébastien Buemi and passed him on lap 36, but was behind Adrian Sutil when he stopped for fresh tyres on lap 38, although Button was able to pass Sutil a few laps later, with Buemi also getting ahead of the Force India. At the end of the 43rd lap, Lewis Hamilton had managed to pass Paul di Resta and move up to eighth place, with Sutil falling to ninth, having been passed by both Buemi and Button. Hamilton's battle with Buemi came to an end on lap 44 as the two McLarens pitted together, with Hamilton getting ahead"