Is Lee "Jaedong" Jae Dong playing as Zerg again? After it seemed the Terran switch was inevitable after last season's World Championship Series (WCS) Korea event, Jaedong played the two newest maps of Season 3 in the round of 32 at IEM Cologne. It appears Jaedong may be leaning towards Zerg in the future, but his current plan remains to play whatever race gets him to the round of 8.\n\nAs someone who has followed and watched Jaedong play for years, it was very obvious at IEM Cologne that he was very uncomfortable playing as a Terran. This is nothing new as Jaedong has always played worse when he was trying to transition to a new race, and his non-Zerg games in the past have always been weaker than his Zerg games. It was shocking to see Jaedong play as Terran, as his play was very weak, and at times even embarrassing.\n\nMany of his decisions in the round of 32 game against Revival was questionable, but it was clear Jaedong was thinking through a lot of things in his head. It's also clear that playing against a player like Revival, who was much stronger than the other Terran in the group, meant Jaedong was being put in an extremely disadvantageous position.\n\nJaedong had a really hard time defending, as Revival was constantly applying pressure and could almost always pick him off with a frontal attack. Jaedong would often let Revival have one of his bases, and in some cases an entire base. His defense was really weak, and in general he just didn't have a solid understanding of how to play the matchup.\n\nWhile Jaedong's TvT didn't look very good, his ZvT game against Dark in the loser's bracket was fantastic. Jaedong's decision to stay on Zerg in the round of 8 was a decision he made before the game even started, and he was in the winner's bracket of the group. If he had been playing ZvZ, he would have already been out of the tournament.\n\nIt's worth noting that Jaedong's ZvT wasn't the same caliber as his ZvZ, and it was just as bad as his TvT. His main weakness in this match was how he dealt with Dark's roach timings. He didn't always make the correct defense, and as a result Dark was able to punish him quite easily. Jaedong's biggest issue in the ZvT matchup is trying to figure out a build that he can feel confident in.\n\nThis is a big issue because"