Chrysanthemum is a non-flowering perennial plant belonging to the Asteraceae family. The asteraceae family is composed of around 24,000 species. The genus Chrysanthemum is a composite group and consists of approximately 200 species. In Hindi, the plant is known as Karanji, Kuntimuk, Kwatamal. It is a good source of vitamin C and is used as a food and a medicinal plant. The leaves are considered to be of some value as a pot-herb. The entire plant is highly toxic. This plant is often confused with one belonging to the Rosaceae family, known as Golden Shower (Cassia fistula).\n\nChrysanthemum is widely used in Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, Homoeopathy and allopathy. The plant is used as an appetizer, digestive, vermifuge, for treating jaundice, anthelmintic, skin infections, piles, and disorders of uterus and vagina. The plant is reported to have antiviral activity.\n\nThe extract of Chrysanthemum spp. is used in form of drops, ointments, nasal sprays, aerosols, gargles, and nasal drops in Western medicine. It is a non-opiate analgesic. It is an antipyretic, vasodilator, hypotensive, and anti-inflammatory agent. It is used for treating dental infections, painful cold sores, and sinusitis.\n\nIt is a powerful disinfectant used in hospitals and clinics as a wound antiseptic. It is an effective treatment for infections of the skin, boils, and other skin lesions. The preparation is a thick solution of manganese salts in a 2% solution of hydrogen peroxide and contains 4% to 10% of this chemical, which acts as an antiseptic. It is also used to treat malaria.\n\nChrysanthemum oil is considered as a good antimicrobial agent. It is used in the form of inhalation for the treatment of sinusitis. It is effective against fungi, yeast, bacteria, and viruses. This oil is also used as an antiviral agent for flu, chickenpox, herpes, and herpes zoster.\n\nThe extract is used in the treatment of infectious diarrhoea, hepatitis, and amoebic dysentery. It is also used to reduce irritation and promote healing of the urethra. The extract is used in the treatment of oral thrush and vaginal candidiasis.\n\nThe plant is used for treating leucorrhoea and vaginitis in traditional medicine. It is used for treating burning and pain in the urethra. The plant is used as an antiseptic for the treatment of mouth sores. It is used for treating boils, blisters, insect bites, burns, and wounds. It is also used for treating skin conditions like eczema, ringworm, and hives.\n\nSome of the names that this plant is known by include Chrysanthemum morifolium, Cassia fistula, Chrysanthemum indicum, Chrysanthemum chamissonis, Homonoia chrysanthemi, and Xiong-hua.\n\nChrysanthemum is considered to be of great value for medicinal purposes. The plant is not only used as an appetizer and digestive, but also for treating the disorders of uterus and vagina. The herb is considered as a good antiseptic and as a healing agent. It is useful for healing wounds, ringworm, and jaundice. It is also considered to be good for treating tuberculosis and reducing phlegm.