Since the beginning of time, humans have been fascinated by the mysterious. The sky has always been full of questions. Our ability to dream big and speculate has enabled us to discover, theorize, and theorize even more. But where do we get the answers? These are the top 10 theories on the unsolved mysteries of the universe.\n\n10. Extraterrestrial Origin\n\nThe human race began to emerge from the Stone Age. The caves and forests were just getting familiar with the new inhabitants. There was a long time of fear and ignorance. Before we started to understand the world, they began to imagine what is outside the world. Some thought of creatures so powerful that they could destroy the world. Other speculated that we are a higher level of evolution and are the result of genetic experimentation of extraterrestrial beings.\n\nLater, these speculations were transformed into mythology and the imagination of the humans. In our modern world, it has turned into science. Many scientists still believe that we are not the only life in the universe and that at some point in history there was a connection with extraterrestrials. Some of them even believe that the first stages of our life were carried out with the help of aliens.\n\n9. Time Travel\n\nSince the beginning of history, people have always been fascinated with time. To travel back in time would allow us to explore the unknown, but would it be worth it? We live in a world where time is constant. Change is one of the most important principles of human life.\n\nNevertheless, many scientists still consider the possibility of time travel. The hypothetical method would be to build a giant machine that would make a hole in time. But how can this happen? It would involve breaking the speed of light and space.\n\nThe machine would have to be so big that it would create a massive black hole. Then the time machine would be moved into the center of the black hole, which would allow it to break the laws of time. So far, scientists have not been able to prove the validity of this theory.\n\n8. Time Travelers\n\nDespite the fact that time travel is still a hypothesis, there are people who believe that it is not. They claim to have traveled back in time to the present or to a previous generation. For this reason, there are also numerous stories about people who claim to have returned from the future to save the world.\n\nMost people who claim to have traveled back in time are just crazy. However, many scientists consider it possible that in the future, when we understand the laws of physics better, we may be able to travel through time. This possibility has been a mystery for a long time. So, this is a list of top 10 theories on the unsolved mysteries of the universe.\n\n7. Deja Vu\n\nThe theory of Deja Vu is so controversial that many scientists do not even dare to think about it. The definition of deja vu is, when a person experiences something, although he has never done it before. Many people think of it as a kind of visual hallucination. The most popular theory about the phenomenon is that it is a past memory that has not been triggered by the usual way.\n\nAnother possible explanation is that the brain creates a fake memory to deceive the person who feels it. The theory is that in reality the person does not experience a deja vu, but it is an internal response to the same scenario. In short, the brain recognizes the environment and recognizes the story that it represents.\n\nIn this case, the illusion is that the person has lived through this scenario. Nevertheless, there are many people who do not think so. The reason is that deja vu is a phenomenon that occurs in any person. So, we have 10 theories on the unsolved mysteries of the universe.\n\n6. Water World\n\nIt is one of the most popular theories in the world of science. It is believed that the moon is a result of a collision between the Earth and a body much larger than it. As a result of the collision, our planet was literally ripped. But what happened to the mass that fell on the surface? According to scientists, this part of the Earth remained liquid.\n\nThe evidence is so compelling that the theory of the water world has become a reality. For example, there is a large number of scientists who believe that the moon was the result of the Earth’s rotation and gravitational collapse.\n\nMoreover, there are evidences that this theory may be true. For example, when scientists tried to drill in the Antarctic, they found water underneath. Also, according to many scientists, the planet Mercury, which has no magnetic field, may be the result of the remains of the water world.\n\n5"