NEW YORK -- For the first time since the NBA's most recent lockout, it seems like the league might be moving toward a resolution in their collective bargaining talks with the players.\n\nThe two sides are looking to the past in order to settle the current negotiations.\n\nA number of recent reports have suggested the league will use the 2005 collective bargaining agreement as a model for their current talks. That agreement was a work in progress for much of the process, with both sides making concessions that ended up allowing for a new CBA. This time around, the two sides are looking at it as a potential blueprint for an agreement.\n\nAs the two sides talk about it, it appears they are trying to get to that point where both sides have something to show for their sacrifices. They had gotten close enough that a meeting was scheduled for Friday between players and owners. But when the two sides could not agree on where to meet, the meeting was canceled.\n\nPlayers want the league to move off its previous proposal of a 49-51 percent split of revenues. The league also needs to give on its desire to move from a 57-43 split in favor of owners to the much more owner-friendly 54-46 split that was agreed to in the last lockout.\n\nThe most recent reports on the negotiations indicated that the league was willing to make a deal on their desire to drop the players' share of revenues from the current 57 percent. Sources told ESPN.com that the league was willing to move to the 50-50 split that was negotiated in the last round of CBA talks.\n\nThat would be an enormous concession for the owners, who have long wanted the players to move back toward a 50-50 split of revenues.\n\nFrom the players' perspective, there would be some significant concession made in order to get to that 50-50 revenue split.\n\n"The goal would be to get to that 50-50 and you could come back to a [salary] cap," one player said. "The players have to give on the percentage. There has to be something that goes from the players to get back to 50-50."\n\nThe owners have been unable to go back to the cap for a variety of reasons. It would require the players to agree to a massive paycut in order for the owners to get the salary restrictions they have been looking for. Players are not willing to go to a cap until they are able to get what they feel is a much more equitable split of the revenues.\n\nOne potential solution, according to a number of players who spoke to ESPN.com, is to drop the hard salary cap and go to a soft cap in which the owners would have the ability to pay whatever they wanted.\n\nThe players have long been opposed to the hard cap that would keep teams from being able to go over the cap to sign a star player. In the last round of negotiations, the players agreed to a system where teams would be able to go over the cap to sign a star player as long as they were willing to pay the luxury tax.\n\nBut that system has not worked well enough for the players, who believe the new tax system -- which is actually an escrow system -- is not much of a deterrent for owners who are willing to go over the cap to sign a star player.\n\n"The thing the players hate the most is the hard cap," a player said. "We don't want that. If they could get the hard cap out and move toward a soft cap with a lot of restrictions, the players could do that."\n\nThat's not to say the owners wouldn't have some restrictions on them under such a system. The players have long wanted a system where the owners would be allowed to go over the cap to sign a player only if a certain percentage of their cap is already being spent on players who make less than the average salary.\n\nSuch a system could help the owners build a team, but it would prevent them from loading up on high-priced players. It would also ensure that the league didn't have a number of teams that were more interested in avoiding the luxury tax than competing for a championship.\n\nThis is a concept that the players have been talking about for some time. In fact, it was one of the main points they were looking to address when they asked the league for an 18 percent share of revenues earlier this year.\n\nThe two sides are also looking at other issues in their current talks, including a rookie salary cap, the length of the guaranteed contracts and the luxury tax.\n\nMost of those issues have been talked about as being much easier to deal with than the revenue split, which is really what this battle has always been about.\n\nSo what is it going to take to get a deal done?\n\nA player who has talked with some of the players who were involved in the last round of negotiations said there would have to be some sacrifices on both sides to get a deal done.\n\n"The owners need to take a bigger hit than they want to get to 50-50," he said. "And the players have to come back from 57-43. So you're going to have to have both sides give on what they're willing to give on. The question is whether they will or not.\n\n"If they don't, we'll be back in the same position as last time.\