André Le Nôtre – André Le Nôtre, also known as Le Nôtre, was a landscape architect, responsible for the design of the gardens of many of the most famous French châteaux of the 17th century, including Versailles. He is popularly known as the father of the profession and he was born in Paris, the son of Pierre Le Nôtre, a painter of miniatures and Marie Le Nôtre. He was trained in his fathers occupation, he did some paintings by the time he was sixteen. He travelled to Italy with Pierre Berchet in 1640, and worked with the architect Jacques Lemercier, from 1646 he was occupied with architectural drawing for the Louvre. He was made a member of the Académie at Mans in 1650, Le Nôtres first known landscape project was at the château of Vaux-le-Vicomte, for his distant relative, Nicolas Fouquet. Here he was more open to the imagination, transforming the plan into a Picturesque and Romantic garden. His work showed a tendency towards the natural and asymmetrical, Le Nôtre was unable to visit Italy on account of wars with the Italian states. His influence was limited to parts of the northeast of France, Le Nôtres first projects in this style were done for the court of the prince de Condé. The château of Chantilly, belonging to the princess of Condé, François, Le Nôtre achieved the most at the Château de Saint-Germain-en-Laye, for Louis XIV and his duc de Bourgogne, later the duc dOrléans. Le Nôtre created a estate at Marly, and, at the Trianon, for the young Louis XIV. His work transformed the old fort into a palace, more suitable for the residence of the king. He is also responsible for the landscapes of the gardens of the Château de Maisons and Château de Saint-Cloud, Le Nôtre died in 1681, and was succeeded by his son Jean-Charles Le Nôtre, to whom he had taught his encyclopedic style, and his son-in-law François Dunan. The design of the gardens of the Château de Marly was a project of Le Nôtres. They were designed to be seen from the top of the terrace, the perspectives and size of the gardens were calculated to surprise the spectators. Le Nôtre planned the gardens following the Renaissance principles of regularity, symmetry and he was also responsible for the modifications made to the original plan, done by Charles Le Brun and the gardener Martin Charbonnier, who remade the terrace and the parterres. The final result was the ancestor of modern formal gardens, in 1660 and 1661, Le Nôtre built two mansions on the Place Royale in Paris, for the jewellers Louis de Lancy and Balthazar Claquin. In 1664, Le Nôtre and Claude Perrault collaborated on a project for the west side of the Louvre. Le Nôtres last landscape was the garden around the château de Sceaux, a project which was incomplete at the time of his death in 1681\n\n9. Gardens of Versailles – The Gardens of Versailles occupy part of what was once the Domaine royal de Versailles, the royal demesne of the château of Versailles. Situated to the west of the palace, the gardens cover some 800 hectares of land, in addition to the meticulous manicured lawns, parterres of flowers, and sculptures are the fountains, which are located throughout the garden. Dating from the time of Louis XIV and still using much of the network of hydraulics as was used during the Ancien Régime. On weekends from spring to early autumn, the administration of the museum sponsors the Grandes Eaux – spectacles during which all the fountains in the gardens are in full play. In 1979, the gardens along with the château were inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List, one of thirty-one such designations in France. With Louis XIII’s final purchase of lands from Jean-François de Gondi in 1632 and his assumption of the role of Versailles in the 1630s. Records indicate that late in the decade Claude Mollet and Hilaire Masson designed the gardens and this early layout, which has survived in the so-called Du Bus plan of c.1662, shows an established topography along which lines of the gardens evolved. This is evidenced in the definition of the main east-west. From this point forward, the expansion of the gardens of Versailles followed the expansions of the château, accordingly, Louis XIVs building campaigns apply to the gardens as well. At every stage the prescribed tour was managed, under the Sun Kings directions. First building campaign In 1662, minor modifications to the château were undertaken, existing bosquets and parterres were expanded and new ones created. Most significant among the creations at this time were the Orangerie, the Versailles Orangery, which was designed by Louis Le Vau, was located south of the château, a situation that took advantage of the natural slope of the hill. It provided an area in which orange trees were kept during the winter months. The Grotte de Thétys, which was located to the north of the château, formed part of the iconography of the château, the grotto would be completed during the second building campaign. By 1664, the gardens had evolved to the point that Louis XIV inaugurated the gardens with the fête galante called Les Plaisirs de l’Île Enchantée. The event, which officially was to celebrate his mother, Anne d’Autriche, guests were regaled with fabulous entertainments in the gardens over a period of one week. As a result of this fête – particularly the lack of housing for guests, Louis realized the shortcomings of Versailles and began to expand the château and the gardens once again. With this new phase of construction, the gardens assumed the topographical and iconological design vocabulary that would remain in force until the 18th century. ”\n\n10. French language – French is a Romance language of the Indo-European family. It descended from the Vulgar Latin of the Roman Empire, as did all Romance languages, French has evolved from Gallo-Romance, the spoken Latin in Gaul, and more specifically in Northern Gaul. Its closest relatives are the other langues doïl—languages historically spoken in northern France and in southern Belgium, French was also influenced by native Celtic languages of Northern Roman Gaul like Gallia Belgica and by the Frankish language of the post-Roman Frankish invaders. Today, owing to Frances past overseas expansion, there are numerous French-based creole languages, a French-speaking person or nation may be referred to as Francophone in both English and French. French is a language in 29 countries, most of which are members of la francophonie. As of 2015, 40% of the population is in Europe, 35% in sub-Saharan Africa, 15% in North Africa and the Middle East, 8% in the Americas. French is the fourth-most widely spoken mother tongue in the European Union, 1/5 of Europeans who do not have French as a mother tongue speak French as a second language. As a result of French and Belgian colonialism from the 17th and 18th century onward, French was introduced to new territories in the Americas, Africa, most second-language speakers reside in Francophone Africa, in particular Gabon, Algeria, Mauritius, Senegal and Ivory Coast. In 2015, French was estimated to have 77 to 110 million native speakers, approximately 274 million people are able to speak the language. The Organisation internationale de la Francophonie estimates 700 million by 2050, in 2011, Bloomberg Businessweek ranked French the third most useful language for business, after English and Standard Mandarin Chinese. Under the Constitution of France, French has been the language of the Republic since 1992. France mandates the use of French in official government publications, public education except in specific cases, French is one of the four official languages of Switzerland and is spoken in the western part of Switzerland called Romandie, of which Geneva is the largest city. French is the language of about 23% of the Swiss population. French is also a language of Luxembourg, Monaco, and Aosta Valley, while French dialects remain spoken by minorities on the Channel Islands. A plurality of the worlds French-speaking population lives in Africa and this number does not include the people living in non-Francophone African countries who have learned French as a foreign language. Due to the rise of French in Africa, the total French-speaking population worldwide is expected to reach 700 million people in 2050, French is the fastest growing language on the continent. French is mostly a language in Africa, but it has become a first language in some urban areas, such as the region of Abidjan, Ivory Coast and in Libreville. There is not a single African French, but multiple forms that diverged through contact with various indigenous African languages, sub-Saharan Africa is the region where the French language is most likely to expand, because of the expansion of education and rapid population growth\n\n11. Garden – A garden is a planned space, usually outdoors, set aside for the display, cultivation, and enjoyment of plants and other forms of nature. The garden can incorporate both natural and man-made materials, the most common form today is known as a residential garden, but the term garden has traditionally been a more general one. Zoos,