"During my first month of graduate school, I received a call from my aunt on a weekend when I was in the middle of working on my thesis. She needed help moving out of a rental property she owned. I went over that weekend and helped her clear out the house.\n\nAfter it was all done, she said to me, “You know, a lot of people would be really upset at me for making them do this.”\n\nI smiled.\n\n“That’s why I am here.”\n\nIt’s funny how a simple answer can change the dynamics of a relationship.\n\nI continued to help my aunt after that weekend. She would ask for my help, and I would drop what I was doing. She asked, I gave. I took it for granted that it was my responsibility to help her out, to be available. I also took it for granted that she was comfortable asking me for help.\n\nA few years ago, I went to see my aunt in the hospital. She was having a difficult time recovering from her medical procedure, and I was her first call. I didn’t think twice about dropping everything and going over to her place to take care of her and her dog, especially since she had just moved to an apartment that didn’t allow dogs.\n\nBut I got to the hospital and found out that my uncle was also at the hospital. I didn’t realize that he was in the hospital, and, by the time I found out, he was asleep in a nearby room. I talked to my aunt and we came to the realization that it was important for her to have my uncle there. She needed him in a way that she didn’t need me. I left.\n\nI don’t think my aunt and uncle even realized how much I had changed. I was not as available to help as I used to be, and I knew my time was better spent on other things. I was a graduate student, after all, and I had a whole other life to live.\n\nAs a result of all of this, my aunt and uncle started to depend on others to help out more. They hired a house cleaner and a housekeeper. They began to call people in order to receive the help they needed. I had thought that they would not want to go through the hassle of finding someone to help, but they did.\n\nIt’s as if they needed to be reminded that it was okay to ask for help. They needed to realize that asking for help wasn’t a sign of weakness, but a sign of strength. That asking for help meant you were confident in who you were and what you had to offer, and that you weren’t afraid to ask for help if you needed it.\n\nIn doing so, my aunt and uncle showed me what it meant to ask for help, and I realized that asking for help could be a sign of strength, not weakness.\n\nAdvertisements