You might know of me. I am one of the project managers for Windows 7. Or Windows 7 team is one of the teams that I work in. As a lot of you know, my favorite and almost only thing to do when I am not working is to read a good book. Well, I have done it again. I just finished the book I am about to recommend to you. This book is called “Ready Player One” by Ernest Cline. I can’t recommend this book enough. So what’s the big deal? You are about to find out.\n\nSo what is it about?\n\nThis book is a story about Wade, a teenager, living in the year 2045. The world is in a bad state.\n\nTechnology has progressed very fast, but a lot of humans have been left behind. Wade’s life sucks. He lives with his aunt in the slums of Oklahoma. All he does is play video games.\n\nThen, one day, he hears of a contest to win a fortune by finding the first Easter egg in the virtual reality game OASIS. The creator of OASIS has died and has left behind a secret quest. A quest that has the prize to the first person to complete the quest. But there is a catch: only the creator of the game knows how to find the Easter egg. And he has hidden the clues in the game.\n\nIt is up to Wade to try to find the Easter egg first. But not alone. He quickly assembles a group of fellow OASIS players. This group consists of his best friends and fellow gamers. This quest will soon turn into a journey. And I don’t want to tell you more, because I don’t want to spoil the story for you.\n\nA bit about the Author:\n\nErnest Cline is the author of the book Ready Player One. He is from the state of Texas. He has lived in New York City for a few years, but has now moved back to Texas. He is 40 years old and has been writing books for a long time. His first book was published in 2001.\n\nErnest Cline is very much into old science fiction books, and especially the 1980’s. He loves the music, TV shows, video games and movies of that decade.\n\nMy thoughts:\n\nWhen I read this book, I really couldn’t put it down. I just wanted to know how the story would end. I wanted to know if the good guys would win. I wanted to know how they would beat the bad guys.\n\nI am sure you will love this book, just like I did. It is filled with great references to the 1980’s. If you are born after that time, you will probably have to read the story first to get the references, but I am sure you will enjoy it.\n\nI will also tell you, that this book is a great story, and I can easily recommend this book to any reader. It is not just a story about technology. It is also a story about friendship and courage. And in the end it is a story about hope and dream.\n\nIf you want to read this book, you can find it on Amazon. Or your favorite bookstore. I am not going to tell you how much it costs. I am just going to tell you that it is well worth the price.