BEST ANSWER\n\nOh wow, that is amazing! Thanks for sharing. My husband and I have talked about buying an old truck and refurbishing it. We are very practical people. So, with all of the families who need assistance with their old truck, this is a great idea! My husband does a lot of heavy construction work and we have seen old trucks that people have used as a source of income. My husband has thought about starting a truck repair business to take in used trucks. They do have to be restored a little bit, so he thought he could take some of the load off people and help them out with the money they need. He has thought about all of the used trucks that he sees in people's driveways and knows that they will never sell them because of how much work they are. We actually came across a pretty decent truck last weekend. The only thing wrong with it was that it had been used as a dump truck. It had a couple of huge dump bed holes in the bottom of it. We checked the engine and it runs good. We thought we could buy it and have it fixed up. It had low miles on it, so we thought it would be a good buy. I really thought my husband was going to buy it, but then he was thinking about all of the things that could go wrong with it. He would have had to drive it, so he was thinking about that. He also thought about all of the equipment and the backhoe and such that he would have had to buy if he bought it. My husband is a very smart man and he knew that it would be a lot of work, so we didn't even make an offer.\n\n\n\nI do know that I would love to find a nice truck and fix it up and then donate it to a needy family. I don't know what kind of license you need to operate a truck in your state, but I would like to look into that. I don't think we would charge for the use of the truck. I think we would just want the families to know that we would not be calling on them and checking up on them. I would want the truck to be used for transportation. We would probably work with a nonprofit, so that they would have to be approved to use the truck. That is the only way that I could think of to do it. We are very cautious about where we would donate the truck. My husband and I don't know how long we would have it. We would donate it for a specific time period. We are pretty smart people and we don't need the truck. We know that we would be able to get more than the price we paid for the truck out of it. We could use the money for other things that we are doing.\n\n\n\nMy husband has thought about finding a newer truck that doesn't need to be fixed up. He has thought about putting a little addition on the back to hold a bed. The bed would be the only part of the truck that needed to be fixed up. We have talked about taking this truck and fixing it up and then donating it. I am not sure how we would go about it though.\n\n\n\nThe truck that we saw last weekend is worth at least $3000.00. It has a V8 engine. It does need to be fixed up a little bit, but it is not worth that much money. We looked it up and it was only worth $2500.00. We could probably get it for $2000.00 if we fixed it up. It has not been registered in years, so we would have to get that straightened out. It has power windows, which is really neat. It has a sunroof. It is a really nice truck and it is in good condition. It is not the kind of truck that is really worth buying and fixing up. My husband thought that we could buy it, but I didn't want to go that far. My husband is not used to looking at vehicles like this. I know that he could use it for the business. My husband is a contractor, so he could use it to haul tools and such around.\n\n\n\nIf you can help us figure out what kind of license we need to operate the truck in our state, we would really appreciate it. I am going to look online and see if I can find something out. It would be a lot of work, but it would be worth it. We just don't want the families to take advantage of us. I don't know how we could help with that.\n\n\n\nWe would be willing to spend $500.00 on the truck. It needs some minor work. It is still a nice truck though. We thought we could add a dump bed to it. The bed is the only part that needs to be fixed up. It has a roll down door, so we could even use it to haul things around. It is a great truck.\n\n\n\nI would love to talk to you about this some more. My husband has already done a lot of the research on this. He thinks it would be a great project for us to take on. We have had a lot of health problems lately, so we have not had the time to really look into it.\n\n\n\nI really hope that you can help us. This is an exciting opportunity. I know that you will be able to help us figure out how to operate a truck in our state. I know that we will be able to get the license. We will probably need to get a company name, so that we can register the truck. We are looking forward to talking with you about this.\n\n\n\nSincerely,\n\nMary