Buck Barrow\n\nJames Clarence "Buck" Barrow (May 5, 1903 – June 10, 1934) was an American bank robber and a leader of the Barrow Gang during the 1920s. He was the older brother of fellow outlaws Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker. The Barrow Gang was known for two things: their non-confrontational strategy of targeting banks and small towns where they could get away faster, and for the Texas Prison System refusing to disclose where it had incarcerated the men and women who made up its "most wanted list". This kept the gang in the news during most of its two-year spree and brought the Barrow Gang to the attention of national celebrity.\n\nBuck Barrow was born to Henry Barrow and Cumie Barrow in Telico, Texas on May 5, 1903.\n\nHe was married to Blanche Barrow and had two children, Nell and F.P. Barrow, Jr. He was arrested several times and spent a year in prison for burglary, before being released on parole in 1925. After his release, he became a suspect in at least five murders, but was never tried for them.\n\nIn January 1929, he met with Clyde Barrow, Bonnie Parker, and W.D. Jones to discuss robbing the Texas State Bank in Arcadia, Louisiana. On January 23, W.D. Jones enlisted the help of his friend Henry Methvin to help the group pull off the robbery. On the afternoon of January 24, the gang, minus Clyde, who had stayed behind to keep watch on Jones's family, waited outside the bank. When the townsfolk began to leave their businesses and head towards the bank for the 5:00 p.m. closing, the gang rode into town. They looted the bank of $2,400 and headed back out of town. However, they were stopped by a police roadblock. A shootout ensued and the police killed W.D. Jones. Clyde, driving Bonnie and Jones's widow, Mary, picked up Buck, Blanche, and Methvin, and they fled back to Texas.\n\nThe gang split up after returning to Texas. Buck, Blanche, and Methvin fled to Kansas City, Missouri, where Buck had a sister. However, his sister refused to help them, and Buck was afraid that his criminal record would prevent him from finding work, so he and Blanche left the state. Buck and Blanche went to St. Paul, Minnesota, where they attempted to rob the bank in South St. Paul on April 3, 1929. Buck entered the bank and robbed it of $2,500. He had trouble getting out of the bank with the money, so he told Blanche to get a cab and get him out. Instead, she drove off with the money. They fled to Chicago, where Buck was finally able to secure work as a mechanic.\n\nThey settled in Litchfield, Illinois and opened a garage. In the early hours of January 16, 1930, Blanche gave birth to their daughter, Bonnie Barrow. Bonnie was born two months premature, and she died two days later. A week later, on January 23, 1930, Blanche was arrested for the South St. Paul robbery. She was convicted and sent to prison in the Minnesota State Reformatory.\n\nIn June 1930, Blanche was paroled from prison, but she was unable to find Buck. She reunited with Clyde in Texas, and the couple married on March 22, 1931. Buck was eventually picked up by the police for the South St. Paul robbery. He was sentenced to serve ten to thirty years in prison at the Leavenworth Federal Penitentiary. Buck attempted to escape on July 8, 1931, along with three other convicts. They were armed with automatic weapons and intended to take the prison warden hostage and force him to drive them to Mexico. They were unable to take the warden hostage, but did make it to the main gate, where they shot their way out and escaped.\n\nBuck was caught shortly thereafter. He was held at the prison in Lecumberri in Mexico City. However, Mexican authorities later turned Buck over to Texas authorities, who placed him in the Huntsville Prison Farm. He remained there until December 1933, when he was granted parole. Buck then met up with his sister Nell and her husband, Ted Hinton, and Hinton gave Buck a job working on a used car lot.\n\nOn March 24, 1934, Buck and Hinton were having lunch at Hinton's house in Irving, Texas. Buck had brought Bonnie and Clyde to Hinton's house so that Bonnie could meet his wife. Bonnie and Blanche took an instant dislike to each other. Hinton's wife refused to talk to Bonnie, so Blanche got upset. Buck got up and slapped Blanche, which caused her to fall and hit her head on the kitchen stove. Blanche later filed assault charges against Buck, which caused him to flee to Oklahoma to avoid a murder charge.\n\nThe next day, on March 25, 1934, Buck, Blanche, and Bonnie were all in Springfield, Missouri. That night, Bonnie and Buck attended a dance at the Liberty Tavern in town. While they were at the dance, Clyde, Bonnie, and W.D. Jones were robbing the Eastham Prison Farm of $24,000. When they returned to the tavern, Buck and Blanche argued and Blanche left. On the night of March 26, Blanche filed assault charges against Buck, claiming that he had beaten her the night before. The police picked up Buck and placed him under protective custody. However, they let him go at the insistence of the local sheriff, who told Buck to leave the state. Buck then fled to St. Paul, Minnesota.\n\nBuck Barrow was killed in the car of Beulah Brash, who was driving south on Highway 71 in Gentry, Arkansas, on June 10, 1934. He was buried in the same cemetery as his sister and his niece in Artesia, New Mexico.\n\n\n