"Why won't anyone on the Senate Banking Committee acknowledge that debt restructuring is needed for the Puerto Rico debt crisis to be solved? I just spent about two hours on CSPAN watching the Committee's hearings about Puerto Rico. Not once was the possibility of debt restructuring, which would mean debt reduction, mentioned. All that was mentioned was higher taxes, pension cuts, and deep government spending cuts, on top of what Puerto Rico is already doing. A complete deadlock. Puerto Rico has been austerity-impaired for a long time now, and has experienced a 12% drop in GDP as a result. No one can grow their way out of debt. Yet, even with this depression-like economy, Puerto Rico is still paying a huge amount of its income to its creditors. A lot of that debt comes from bonds that the government of Puerto Rico sold to investors to get the money to cover the huge losses that its electricity monopoly incurred because of oil price spikes. The government still has no way to fix that, since electricity is now being generated by private companies, due to a privatization law passed in 2013. The government of Puerto Rico could offer a debt exchange to investors, swapping the current bonds for ones with a longer maturity date and a lower interest rate, and then reinvest the proceeds into infrastructure projects, where it has a big deficit. But that possibility is completely ruled out. On the other side, the creditors are as intransigent as ever. They claim they can sue the US government if it tries to change their contracts, which is not true. They also claim that Puerto Rico is defaulting on its debt already, which is also not true. The government of Puerto Rico has been paying its creditors 100 cents on the dollar. There is simply no default risk. This is all a huge waste of time. All that the Puerto Rico hearings did was show that the US Congress is not capable of doing what it should have done long ago: allow Puerto Rico to restructure its debts. That would have given Puerto Rico a fresh start, and the creditors would have ended up with their money back. And we would have avoided all this useless talking. Now, we are just wasting time and making the situation worse. Puerto Rico's economy continues to decline. Puerto Rico's economy is expected to contract again by at least 1% in 2016, and another 2% in 2017. Most of the business owners I interviewed in Puerto Rico last month said they expect business to get worse in 2017. So the longer the creditors keep Puerto Rico in this situation, the worse it will get. In the hearings today, several senators brought up a resolution that the House of Representatives passed yesterday in a partisan vote, saying that Puerto Rico is already in default. That resolution is just to make a political point. The Supreme Court has already ruled that Puerto Rico cannot declare bankruptcy like a US municipality can, and cannot restructure its debt in a court. This was because of a law that was passed in 1984. The US Congress could have changed this law a long time ago, but they did not. The Republicans in the House of Representatives, however, do not want to restructure Puerto Rico's debts. Instead, they are trying to force the government of Puerto Rico to do all the reforms it already is doing, without giving it the opportunity to do the debt restructuring that will put its economy back on track. This was not really mentioned in the Senate hearings, but I found out from reporters that the Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee are not going to move forward with the House resolution. They understand that it is not going to pass. We need Congress to pass the resolution anyway, just to show that it has bipartisan support. In the House hearings, Representative Sean Duffy of Wisconsin said, "This is not an emergency." This is a statement that no one in Puerto Rico agrees with. By delaying the debt restructuring, the economy of Puerto Rico is getting worse. More people are moving to the US mainland, which will further reduce the income that Puerto Rico is able to collect in taxes. More people are being forced to do cash jobs in the underground economy, because they cannot find other jobs. And those jobs do not get reported to the government. The longer this process is delayed, the worse it will get. But the creditors and some members of Congress do not seem to understand that Puerto Rico needs a fresh start. So they will continue to waste time, talking about things that are already being done, without any hope of any positive outcome. Puerto Rico's creditors just don't want to take a loss. But we are not doing Puerto Rico any favors by letting this situation continue for so long.