"Ducati Diavel Carbon\n\nDucati Diavel Carbon\n\nBike Test:\n\nMotorcyclingPlus editor Mitch Boehm goes head-to-head with Ducati’s super-sporty cruiser in this stunning full test and video\n\nEver since it was announced that Ducati was to enter the super-sport cruiser market, there have been the inevitable cries of ‘How dare they?’ from those who claim the move is ‘sacrilege’. The true Ducatisti have long seen their beloved marque as an almost sacred institution, a collection of motorcycles that are beautifully engineered and a real art form in themselves. But they don’t make millions of euros from the mass market.\n\nDucati realised that it was time to change.\n\nAt EICMA 2010, Ducati announced a whole new range of cruisers – the Streetfighter, Streetfighter S, Streetfighter 848, Multistrada 1200, Monster 1100 and the Diavel. The range is superbly engineered and oozes technical and aesthetic appeal – the bikes look utterly stunning, each being totally individual in character.\n\nThe Diavel is the most revolutionary of the bunch. It takes the hyper-performance of the Monster 1100 and fuses it with the character and attitude of a more traditional, larger displacement bike. What it is not is the standard Diavel, which has no footrests and looks totally hardcore.\n\nThe Diavel Carbon is powered by the same 160bhp Testastretta 11° v-twin as the Streetfighter and Streetfighter S, and also shares its brakes and suspension, though the suspension is set up to be more road biased. Its 43mm inverted fork is from the Multistrada and the frame and swingarm are both light, to reduce unsprung weight.\n\nFreed from the back of the bike and lengthened in a move reminiscent of the original Monster, the 1100cc Testastretta engine is probably the best v-twin ever. From a smooth idle it pulls hard all the way to its 16,500rpm redline, with a massive wave of torque, great midrange performance and a top end that has the Diavel sprinting away from the line like an animal. It makes a glorious noise, too, with a deep, gruff V-twin growl and a really mellow note that will make anyone grin.\n\nThat low-down torque is perfect for town riding, too, with easy pick-up, and combined with the Diavel’s lightweight frame, makes it easy to wheelie everywhere. You can get both wheels up off the ground with the front, or the rear and front together, making it an entertaining and easy bike to hoon around town, or in a straight line at the racetrack.\n\nThe rear suspension was the one weak link in the package on the day I rode the Diavel Carbon. When the bike was stood on its nose, there was a fair amount of dive, which was amplified under braking. This means that the rear end would sink in on deceleration and the front end would dive a bit. This wasn’t too much of a problem for slow speeds, but at speed on a tight racetrack, it became a little annoying.\n\nEven on the racetrack, though, the Diavel Carbon is a real joy to ride. On the road, it was smooth and forgiving with good front-end feel. At high speeds, the Ducati’s geometry creates a good compromise between agility and stability, while its superb stability and composure at speed means it’s the perfect tourer.\n\nThe Ducati Diavel Carbon is a superb motorcycle and is almost a totally different motorcycle to its hardcore sibling. In fact, Ducati could easily have gone for a totally different name for the motorcycle as it is quite distinct from the standard Diavel, being more refined and more usable. If you’re in the market for a touring bike, or a comfortable sports bike that can handle a twisty back road with ease, then this should be at the top of your shopping list.\n\nFor more on the new Ducati Diavel Carbon, visit: www.motorcyclenews.com