"Trump Administration Is an Outrage Machine: How to Cope\n\nMaxwell Ryan Blocked Unblock Follow Following Jun 25, 2018\n\nIn the United States of America, it is not uncommon for the government to deny requests for records using dubious legal arguments, redact information at random, or otherwise ignore freedom of information laws and court orders. But during the first six months of the Trump administration, the outrage machine has been working overtime.\n\nLast week, the Department of Justice (DOJ) argued that the release of any information about a detained immigrant’s future would compromise national security. In April, the DOJ refused to release information about which specific, ongoing investigations the FBI has into potential meddling by foreign governments into the U.S. election system. Before that, the DOJ redacted a memo that offered advice on how the Department should respond to a congressional request for information related to the infamous Trump-Russia dossier. And it goes on and on.\n\nEven for the most dedicated observer of U.S. government, it can be difficult to keep track of all the stories and the many denials. But how can you, an average citizen, determine what’s a scandal, what’s a legal argument, and what’s a bit of both?\n\nIf you are interested in understanding how the government is reacting to new information, then you can do no better than the National Security Archive’s Trump-Russia project, a crowdsourced repository for all the documents and information that we as a country can learn about the many aspects of this developing story. If you are looking to get a handle on the scale of the problems, this page is a great place to start. But don’t forget to come back! This is an ongoing project that will be updated as more information becomes available.\n\nWhile the National Security Archive is committed to providing the public with as much information as possible, we know that the U.S. government is just as committed to denying information or obstructing the release of records. In the coming months, the Archive will be continuing to file lawsuits and pressing the administration for the release of information, but that can only go so far.\n\nOur democratic institutions are designed to hold government accountable, and that can only happen if you speak out. Reach out to your elected officials, join organizations that support transparency, and get to know your FOIA laws.