Related Computer Questions\n\nI have a "taskbar-deskbar-systemtray" program that is not I have a "taskbar-deskbar-systemtray" program that is not allowing me to control my icons. it does allow me to right click and show a menu of the programs I have installed. I cannot get to the settin … read more Satchi Bachelor's Degree 2,103 satisfied customers\n\nI use a W7 64 bit machine. A week ago my computer had a Hi, I use a W7 64 bit machine. A week ago my computer had a hardware failure, and the mobo has been replaced. On my old machine I was using Start8 and the Desktop Icons plug in. I cannot get the … read more Cody Computer Science 2,567 satisfied customers\n\nI have been having a problem on the Taskbar in Windows 10. I I have been having a problem on the Taskbar in Windows 10. I am not able to have the icons visible on the Taskbar. I have tried everything suggested on the internet. I have unchecked and then che … read more Michelle Manager operations Bachelor's Degree 2,580 satisfied customers\n\nI am looking for the (WIN 7 Taskbar Extension for Windows I am looking for the (WIN 7 Taskbar Extension for Windows 10) , from my Lenovo PC. How can I get it? … read more Bhavik Joshi Computer Science and Engineering 1,057 satisfied customers\n\nI have an ASUS G55VW laptop. My task bar will not stay I have an ASUS G55VW laptop. My task bar will not stay put on the bottom of the screen. I can move it down and it sticks for about 10 seconds and then it comes up about a quarter of an inch and … read more Christopher Love 121 satisfied customers\n\nI can't get windows10 to remember what I want on the task bar I can't get windows10 to remember what I want on the task bar on the right side of the screen. I can't have any open program icons on the task bar. … read more Kris R IT Manager Computing 3,312 satisfied customers\n\nI have Windows 7. My taskbar is covering the bottom part of I have Windows 7. My taskbar is covering the bottom part of my desktop. How do I adjust the size of the task bar? … read more James Network & System Administrator Bachelor's Degree 11,237 satisfied customers\n\nI have a desktop that runs Windows 7 Home Premium. For some I have a desktop that runs Windows 7 Home Premium. For some reason the task bar on the right side of the screen is no longer being held at the bottom of the screen. It stays where the arrow is pointing … read more IT Miro Studying for Masters Degree in IT Bachelor's Degree 1,441 satisfied customers\n\nOn my Dell E5430 laptop, the right end of the taskbar has On my Dell E5430 laptop, the right end of the taskbar has dropped about a third of the way up the screen. I've tried to right-click and adjust the taskbar position, but it doesn't stay where I put i … read more Richard IT Manager IT Manager, Consultant 15,140 satisfied customers\n\nWhen I boot up my laptop the taskbar (start button) moves down When I boot up my laptop the taskbar (start button) moves down the right side of the screen and covers the menu bar. Is there a way to keep the taskbar at the bottom of the screen? I have tried p … read more Tim W. Computer Support Specialist Associate Degree 1,045 satisfied customers\n\nI have a new ASUS laptop (windows 7 home premium) and the I have a new ASUS laptop (windows 7 home premium) and the taskbar keeps jumping to the top of the screen. The taskbar is now in front of all of the items on my desktop. The taskbar is located at th … read more Nalosin Computer Support Specialist High School or GED 1,024 satisfied customers\n\nI have an Acer Aspire 7741 running windows 7. The right hand I have an Acer Aspire 7741 running windows 7. The right hand side of the screen keeps dropping so that icons are not visible. I have to move them on my desktop to see them. I have tried to use both ri … read more Nalosin Computer Support Specialist High School or GED 1,024 satisfied customers\n\nI want to remove Windows XP and replace with Windows 7. I I want to remove Windows XP and replace with Windows 7. I have tried to do this before and had problems. I was able to do a Windows 7 recovery disk and then got the message that Windows 7 would re … read more Bryan IT Consultant 10,911 satisfied customers\n\nI have a Dell D620 laptop. I have misplaced the battery. I have a Dell D620 laptop. I have misplaced the battery. It will not run with the adapter. When I turn on the laptop the Taskbar jumps to the top of the screen and covers all of my icons. How do I cor … read more David L Bachelor's Degree 5,339 satisfied customers\n\nI installed Windows 7 on my ASUS laptop. I use the F1 function I installed Windows 7 on my ASUS laptop. I use the F1 function to increase the font size. When I go into control panel to increase the size, the box is too small to use. Also, the taskbar pops to t … read more Mark High School or GED 593 satisfied customers\n\nI have a new ASUS laptop and the taskbar is at the top of I have a new ASUS laptop and the taskbar is at the top of the screen and it keeps going there. I have done all the things I can find on the internet but it will not stay at the bottom. Help!! I ne … read more Justin Network Administrator Associate Degree 2,129 satisfied customers\n\nHi. When I log on my laptop to my desktop (windows xp) i Hi. When I log on my laptop to my desktop (windows xp) i have all the icons on the desktop. When I log on from the laptop to my desktop (still using same account) only the icon that is at the right of … read more Smile Bachelor's Degree 726 satisfied customers