Moran S.S. and Castro J. (1999). In Situ Conservation of Genetically Modified Organisms (in the Brazilian Context)”. Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERAC), Columbia University, New York, NY 10027, USA.\n\n\n\nThis study was conducted by the Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERAC) of Columbia University, New York. The study was conducted to assess the need for further regulation of the environmental risk of GMO's and to develop proposals for strengthening the regulation of GMO's in Brazil. The project was funded by a grant from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and implemented in collaboration with Brazil's Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA). This paper describes a survey of selected academic and policymaking opinion makers in Brazil on the level of awareness, understanding, and concern with GMO's, both in terms of their own country and other countries. This was a follow up study to an earlier one that the author conducted in 1994 (Agostinho and Castro, 1994). The 1994 study was conducted at the request of the National Council of Genetic Engineering (CONEG), an organization created by the Federal Government of Brazil to study the issue of genetically modified organisms in Brazil. The 1994 study was a small survey of 34 individuals from federal and state government agencies, universities, scientific research centers, and NGOs. This later study, conducted in 1999, was conducted by a group from CERAC. It involved 49 individuals from 18 federal, state, and municipal agencies, 25 universities and scientific research centers, and 5 NGOs. CERAC used a pre-test questionnaire in the 1994 study and the results of this study are included in this paper.\n\nThe questions addressed in this survey included: what are their backgrounds, what are their current positions and the length of time they have held these positions; their level of expertise and training; their opinion of the level of concern over GMO's among the general population, among scientists, and among scientists in other countries; whether there should be further regulations, what agencies should be involved in regulating GMO's, and what the appropriate levels of involvement should be; what would be the best way to regulate GMO's; what are the major concerns with GMO's, how can they be solved, and what are the technical/scientific concerns with GMO's; what would be the benefits of GMO's, what are the risks to the environment, to human health, and to food security; whether there should be labeling of GMO's; what the labeling requirements should be, who should enforce the labeling, and what the penalties for violating labeling requirements should be; whether they are aware of"