2014 Red Bull Ring GP2 and GP3 Series rounds\n\nThe 2014 Red Bull Ring GP2 and GP3 Series rounds were a pair of motor races held on July 19 and 20, 2014 at the Red Bull Ring in Spielberg, Austria as part of the GP2 Series and GP3 Series. It was the first round of the 2014 GP2 season and the first round of the 2014 GP3 season. The race weekend supported the 2014 Austrian Grand Prix.\n\nFor the first time since the 2011 feature race in Istanbul, the GP2 feature race was won by a driver other than Stoffel Vandoorne, who won both races at the Turkish track. Sam Bird, driving for the Russian Time team, won the feature race after taking the lead from polesitter Jolyon Palmer on the first lap. Vandoorne's season-long struggles continued in the sprint race; after starting from the back of the grid he was disqualified for failing to start at the pit lane exit when the safety car peeled into the pit lane. This resulted in Marcus Ericsson winning the sprint race from the pole, his first win in GP2 and the first for his new team, Rapax.\n\nSébastien Buemi won the first GP3 race, the first of his career, for ART Grand Prix. He led teammate George Russell to give the team its first 1–2 finish since the 2013 Italian Grand Prix. Esteban Ocon took his second victory of the season for Prema Powerteam in the sprint race, in which only 18 drivers finished the race after an accident involving Konstantin Tereshchenko resulted in two red flags.\n\nIn the week before the event, James Calado announced that he would be driving for Racing Engineering in the feature race and Trident in the sprint race, replacing Davide Valsecchi at the former team and Johnny Cecotto at the latter. Sean Gelael, who had raced for Carlin at the season-opening 2014 Bahrain GP2 Series round, joined MP Motorsport for the feature race, replacing Tom Dillmann. Alexander Rossi, who drove for Marussia F1 Team at the 2014 Australian Grand Prix, drove for Campos Racing in place of Takuya Izawa. ART Grand Prix announced that Raffaele Marciello, the 2013 Formula Three Euro Series champion, would drive for the team, replacing James Calado in the first race and the third race.\n\nOnly 18 cars finished the feature race after an accident involving Konstantin Tereshchenko for Hilmer Motorsport, who was trying to pass Jack Harvey's Carlin car under braking for the first corner after the start of the second lap, which was followed by two red flags. During the first"