4 out of 5 stars\n\nThis is a story about Nell (short for Penelope), a 12-year old girl who lives in a planet called New Texas. She and her whole family lives with another family in a settlement with few houses, called a soddy. One day Nell has a weird dream that a storm is coming. When she wakes up she discovers that she is not crazy, it is really a storm coming. The storm is about to destroy the settlement. Nell and her younger brother Cip run away from the house to look for shelter. They meet a girl who tells them that there is a storm shelter close to the river. They run toward it, but when they arrive there are lots of people there already. After a while they find another place to hide in. The storm finally stops, but there is no sign of the family or the people they were hiding with. They have to go back to the house, where they find their family. They all go back home, but they find out that the house is damaged. They need to go back to the soddy, but their father wants to stay in the house for a while. Their mother, who is pregnant, and their brother have to go back to the soddy. Nell and Cip try to go back with them but they can’t because there is no room in the air car. They decide to walk back. While they are on the road they see a stranger who gives them some food. They keep walking and after a while they see a little settlement. There they meet an old man, who tells them that they can stay with him for the night. He tells them that he is an old star man, and that Nell and Cip can stay with him until they are old enough to work. Nell tells him that they don’t want to leave their parents, but he tells them that he was once in their situation.\n\nI liked the book and I liked Nell. She was smart, even when she didn’t know it. I think that kids between 8 and 12 can read this book.\n\nBy Johanna T.\n\n4 out of 5 stars\n\nI really enjoyed this book because of the main character Nell. She’s a 12 year old girl who tries to do what’s best for her family. She is very curious about her father’s job as a star man. Her mother is pregnant with twins, so Nell and her brother, Cip, have to do some hard chores. Nell has a feeling that a storm is coming, so they start to run to find a shelter. When they arrive there is no room for them and they don’t know where to go. They find another shelter where there are many people already. They meet a girl who seems very sad and she is the only one that can communicate with the people of her settlement. When the storm is over they find that their house is destroyed, but they are still there.\n\nI would recommend this book for all kids, but especially for girls because Nell is a girl.\n\nBy Janna\n\n5 out of 5 stars\n\nI love this book! It was a hard read at first, but once you get into it it’s a fun story. The story is about a girl named Nell and her little brother, Cip, who are left at a shelter when their parents need to get home from a storm to have their twins. I like how the author, Willo Davis Roberts, gives the story different point of views. The point of view changes from Nell to Cip to the doctor, Jim, and even their parents, Pip and Clot. I thought it was a good story and I could relate to it. My mom has always been busy taking care of the house and kids. I thought it was kind of funny when Cip and Nell thought the doctor and his wife had a child because they were all together. It made me feel bad for the doctor when he was told they did have a child but he had died. I could also relate to Nell when she was scared. Sometimes when I’m scared I can’t go to sleep and I have nightmares. I really liked the part when Nell, Cip, and the doctor get lost on the planet and find the old man’s hut. They were kind of stranded on the planet because of the weather. The author made me feel like I was there with Nell and Cip, kind of like a dream.\n\nBy Tavia\n\n4 out of 5 stars\n\nIn the book Texas Star, a girl named Nell is feeling scared and alone. Her father is a star man and is at home sick with a cold. When Nell’s parents hear a storm coming they leave the kids in their care and leave for home. Nell and her brother, Cip, were left with her dad’s work partner and his wife. When the storm started they went to find a storm shelter. When they arrived at the shelter it was packed with people and no room for them. Nell and Cip went to a smaller shelter and they found a little girl there who was very scared. Nell and Cip tried to be friends with her and told her they were going to go home after the storm. When the storm was over they were stuck. When they got home their house was gone and Nell and Cip decided to follow the road home. Nell and Cip walked and walked but they found a little boy who was lost and his father was not there. They followed him to his house and they were told that they could stay for the night. In the morning Nell and Cip woke up and the boy, Ash-Ki, and his father were gone. They finally got home and found out that their parents and the little boy they met were gone.\n\nI thought this book was great and I would recommend it to kids who like action and mystery.\n\nBy Mariana\n\n4 out of 5 stars\n\nTexas Star is a book about a girl named Nell. She and her younger brother, Cip, have to go stay with their father’s partner. They are at the soddy and Cip is playing with his friend, Ash-Ki. Nell has a feeling that a storm is coming, so they try to find shelter. When they get to the storm shelter, it is full of people and no one can find a place to sit down. Nell and Cip"