"I was there in New York City that night the world stopped to watch the Yankee game and see a major league baseball player commit suicide live on national television. I remember watching a baseball player named Darryl Strawberry walk off the field in shame, as he had been caught buying drugs. I also remember thinking that nobody else knew what to do or how to act, as if everybody was paralyzed in time, wondering how this would play out. The world paused to watch, and with my own children at the time, I thought how could this be.\n\nThe sport of baseball is nothing but the best in the world. What does that say about the world? It is the best and worst of what is human.\n\nWe talk about Mike Trout as a great player. He is the best player in the American League, as a matter of fact, he is a best in the world player. He is an All Star, and on the short list of the best players to ever play the game.\n\nThe sport of baseball is nothing but the best in the world. What does that say about the world? It is the best and worst of what is human.\n\nBaseball is the quintessential American sport, and if you have ever been to a game, you realize that this is not just a game, it is a community. It is a place where people go to celebrate, to connect with friends and neighbors, and to spend an evening out. They watch the game and talk, but the conversations are not always about the game. There is more to life than baseball, but at the ballpark, the conversations are real, people talk about their jobs, their families, and their neighborhood. Baseball brings people together.\n\nMike Trout is the best baseball player in the American League, but that is not the reason he is the best player in the world. He is the best player in the world because he is a great human being. He is the best player in the world because he is a hero to so many, because he represents the best of what is possible for us all. He is not only a star baseball player, but a role model for all of us.\n\nTrout is a great player, but he is a better man.\n\nMike Trout is the greatest human being I have ever known. I have been writing about Mike Trout since his rookie season, and I have never written a story or said a single word about him that was not true. I am proud of that fact. Mike Trout does not need me to say nice things about him, and I have never needed to say anything nice about Mike Trout.\n\nMy job is not to make Mike Trout a hero, it is to tell you about the hero who lives among us, and the hero is Mike Trout.