Conclusions: The introduction of a low FODMAP diet seems to be a useful approach for managing IBS symptoms in a high proportion of IBS patients. However, certain food groups are not targeted and most of the low FODMAP diet is not suitable for long-term application, especially for food products not readily available on the market. It is therefore essential that further research is conducted to develop low FODMAP food products that are commercially available.\n\nResults: Overall, 50% of IBS patients experienced a 50% reduction in symptom severity. In total, 48% of patients benefited from a low FODMAP diet and of these, 64% reported continued relief of symptoms after the end of the trial. Patients reported difficulty in adhering to the diet as they could not always find food products that were low in FODMAPs.\n\nMethods: A prospective study was conducted over 12 weeks in a university-affiliated gastroenterology outpatient clinic in Hong Kong. The participants were evaluated using the ROME III criteria to confirm the diagnosis of IBS and underwent a 2-week run-in phase to exclude potential confounding factors. IBS patients were randomly assigned to a low FODMAP diet group (n = 51) or control group (n = 51). The patients in the low FODMAP diet group received instruction and provided with a low FODMAP diet plan. Symptoms were monitored using a symptom score diary and monitored by a clinical team that was not aware of the allocation group.\n\nObjective: This study aimed to determine the effect of a low FODMAP diet on gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with IBS and to evaluate its potential in reducing the impact of the symptoms on daily life.\n\nBackground: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder, with symptoms including abdominal pain and bloating. A low fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols (FODMAPs) diet is an emerging therapeutic strategy for IBS.\n\nIntroduction\n\nIrritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder, with symptoms including abdominal pain and bloating. The exact etiology of IBS remains unknown. Multiple putative risk factors have been proposed, including intestinal infection, psychological stress, diet, and altered gut microbiota. Diet may play an important role in the development of IBS. A low fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols (FODMAPs) diet has been found to reduce symptoms of bloating and abdominal pain in patients with IBS.\n\nFODMAPs is a collective term for a number of short-chain carbohydrates, oligosaccharides, monosaccharides, and sugar alcohols that are poorly absorbed in the small intestine, thus increasing the osmotic load of the small bowel (1). FODMAPs include fructose, lactose, fructans, galacto-oligosaccharides, and polyols (1). A diet low in FODMAPs was initially proposed as a therapeutic option for patients with IBS. There is growing evidence for the benefit of a low FODMAP diet in improving gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with IBS. The high osmotic load of FODMAPs appears to cause distension of the bowel, especially in the small bowel (2). A recent randomized control trial by Macia et al. showed a reduced number of flatulence and loose stools when a low FODMAP diet was compared with a low fiber diet in patients with IBS (3). However, the low FODMAP diet is not suitable for long-term application due to its restrictive nature and potential inability to address the complex etiology of IBS.\n\nFructose is an FODMAP sugar, but its role in IBS remains controversial. Fructose ingestion has been shown to cause gastrointestinal symptoms (4). A previous study showed that an increased fructose intake was associated with a significantly increased risk of developing IBS (5). In contrast, there is also emerging evidence that fructose may have a beneficial role in treating IBS symptoms. In a study by Baer et al. comparing a low FODMAP diet with a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols (FODMAPs), but high in fructose, similar reductions in symptom severity were observed (6). This suggests that both high-fructose and low-fructose diets may reduce symptoms in IBS patients. However, the long-term effects of fructose and other FODMAPs on the gut microbiome are unknown.\n\nThe aim of this study was to determine the effect of a low FODMAP diet on gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with IBS and to evaluate its potential in reducing the impact of the symptoms on daily life. We hypothesize that the low FODMAP diet will lead to improved gastrointestinal symptoms and quality of life in patients with IBS.\n\nMaterials and Methods\n\nStudy Design\n\nThis study was a prospective, randomized, parallel design conducted in the Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, from January 2015 to January 2016. This study received ethics approval from the University of Hong Kong (no. 2014.1005) and all patients signed an informed consent form before their participation in the study.\n\nStudy Participants\n\nThe study protocol was published in a previous randomized controlled trial (3). In brief, patients with a diagnosis of IBS by the Rome III criteria were recruited in this study. The Rome III criteria are a commonly used set of diagnostic criteria for IBS. The criteria include abdominal pain or discomfort for at least 3 days per month over the past 3 months with two or more of the following: improvement with defecation, onset associated with a change in frequency of stool, and onset associated with a change in form (appearance) of stool.\n\nPatients with a gastrointestinal, a metabolic, a hepatic, an endocrine, a respiratory, or a psychiatric disease were excluded from the study. Patients were excluded if they were being treated with antibiotics or laxatives, or if they had been following a low FODMAP diet prior to study entry.\n\nAssessment and Intervention\n\nBaseline demographic and clinical data were collected for each participant. A run-in phase was introduced for the participants to exclude confounding factors. The run-in phase was a 2-week diet without a low FODMAP diet plan. During the run-in phase, the participants were allowed to follow any diet that they deemed suitable for their condition. At the end of the run-in phase, the participants were then assigned to either a low FODMAP diet group or a control group. Participants in the low FODMAP diet group received a low FODMAP diet plan, while those in the control group did not receive any dietary advice.\n\nThe low FODMAP diet plan was provided to all participants. The dietary plan advised the participants to avoid high FOD"