Cross-posted at The Huffington Post.\n\nThe recent announcement that, for the first time in three decades, a new strain of avian influenza is spreading from one species to another is concerning but not, as some news outlets have claimed, evidence of a “fatal pandemic in the making.” A strain of H5N1 avian influenza (called H5N1-V) was detected in two apparently healthy wild ducks found in Germany. These ducks, according to the World Health Organization, most likely caught the virus from chickens, because H5N1-V has not previously been detected in wild birds, and H5N1 has not previously been found circulating among wild birds anywhere in the world. The two ducks apparently had not recently come into contact with any chickens. The H5N1-V strain found in the ducks is one of at least 14 genetically distinct H5N1 subtypes. While the H5N1-V strain can infect chickens, it cannot efficiently spread among them or to other species.\n\nH5N1 is an avian influenza virus, meaning that it naturally infects birds. Over the past 14 years, H5N1 has caused at least 555 infections and 282 deaths in humans. While those numbers are higher than any other human infection since influenza was first identified in humans in 1918, they are still a small fraction of the estimated 5 billion to 8 billion birds that have been infected with H5N1 over the past decade. The World Health Organization says that “it is difficult to estimate accurately the number of cases that have gone undetected.” Since the virus has spread to so many different countries, it is likely that many cases have gone undetected. Nevertheless, the case-fatality rate (defined as the percentage of people who die from a given disease) from H5N1 in humans is estimated at 60 percent. It is difficult to compare H5N1’s case-fatality rate to those of other viruses. The case-fatality rate from the H1N1 influenza virus that caused the 1918 influenza pandemic, which killed an estimated 50 million to 100 million people worldwide, was only 2.5 percent, yet that virus killed about 2 percent of the world’s population.\n\nGiven the high death toll, it is important to find the best ways to limit the spread of H5N"