"So I'll post the bottom line first, I don't recommend you go to Great Clips if you have hair that is even close to being down past your shoulders. Let's just say that there is no way that they can cut your hair unless it's wet, and as it dries, it ends up looking like they used a weed-whacker on it. When I arrived at the location (1220 S. Main St. in Bowling Green, OH) I was greeted by a nice girl who asked me how I wanted my hair cut. I said that I wanted it short, but with layers. I'm a senior in college, so it's nice to have something that makes me look professional in the summer time, without having to worry about how long it takes to style it each morning.\n\nSo she started cutting it and it looked good. It was only $11, which is a good price for a haircut. I waited there for about 15 minutes before the girl finished cutting it and called me over to the dryers. I sat down and she blow dried my hair with a round brush, which I don't normally do, but it didn't seem to make much of a difference. As she started to dry it, I started to notice how choppy it looked. She said "it looks really good. I'm glad I cut it so short, I was thinking about cutting it longer, but I think you look good like this". I was disappointed because my hair looked terrible, but at least it was only $11, and I was able to get it cut before I had to go back to class.\n\nWhen I went to class, I went up to my professor to show her how awful the haircut looked. She told me that I needed to go to the student center to get it fixed. I was getting really frustrated because I had class at 3:15, and there were no available appointments to fix it, so I was told to come back tomorrow. When I got back, I went to the salon and they told me that it would take 20 minutes to fix, and would cost $30. I said that I didn't think it was worth the money to have them fix it, so I asked how I could get my money back. They said I could go to another location and get another haircut to use the coupon that was still on it.\n\nThe next morning, I went to Great Clips on South Highway 25. I got there and was greeted by a very nice girl. I explained to her the situation, and she said that she would be happy to fix it. She washed it out and put a trim on it. When she was done, I went back over to the mirror and could barely recognize myself. I had long, flowing layers. It was beautiful. I went back to the girl who helped me and she handed me a card for $5 off my next visit. I was glad to know that I had someone I could trust to cut my hair from now on.