Last fall, it looked as if the real-estate market was stabilizing after years of decline. The number of residential sales grew sharply as home buyers took advantage of lower prices. Construction crews worked overtime to put up new homes, and by year's end the average price of a new house had fallen to a level not seen since 2007. Some economists, including Joshua Shapiro of MFR, even forecast a healthy real-estate market in 2013.\n\nBut by March, when the latest data were released, the new-home market had slowed. Builders started fewer new houses in the first quarter of the year, and sales of previously owned homes dropped. Sales were not much higher than a year ago, and prices were down 6.5 percent.\n\nMeanwhile, people who want to rent instead of buy are finding more and more competition for the available units, as people who had lost their homes in foreclosure or who had moved to new neighborhoods and had to leave their rentals when their leases expired compete with newcomers for what apartments are available. According to Marcus & Millichap, a real-estate investment-research firm, the number of apartments that went on the market in March was almost half the number available a year earlier, and rents were up 1.1 percent.\n\nPhoto\n\nBut that wasn't the only news in March's housing numbers. One key factor that could speed up the recovery in housing — the fact that millions of foreclosures are coming to a close — was barely noticed, perhaps because this important milestone was expected.\n\n"That was the big story for me," said Christopher Herbert, the managing director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard. "It was the single largest driver of lower home prices last year."\n\nForeclosures have been a major drag on the market since the financial crisis, depressing the prices of other homes in neighborhoods where foreclosures have clustered and even undermining the economy at large.\n\nNewsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.\n\nBut in March, the volume of foreclosure sales finally fell below the levels of new foreclosures, according to RealtyTrac. As a result, the overall inventory of foreclosed homes on the market shrank for the first time in four years.\n\nIt's too soon to declare the end of foreclosures. Many people are still struggling to keep their homes. About 1.9 million homes in the foreclosure process, a total that includes default notices, auctions and bank repossessions, are still not yet in the foreclosure process, according to CoreLogic. And RealtyTrac expects the number of foreclosures to rise this year as a result of the government's mortgage settlement.\n\nAdvertisement Continue reading the main story\n\nBut the housing market has passed a milestone, and now the trend is starting to move in the opposite direction. "We think it's a game changer," said Mark Fleming, the chief economist at CoreLogic.\n\nMore foreclosures mean more available homes. And the inventory of available homes has been shrinking for two years now, according to the National Association of Realtors. That should finally push prices up.\n\n"When we talk to economists, we keep hearing they think the worst is behind us," said Jed Kolko, the chief economist at Trulia. "I think they're right. But the best may be yet to come."