"It's been more than a decade since the last major update to Britain's copyright law, and it's high time that the UK brought its copyright law into the 21st century.\n\nYou've probably heard that the Government wants to bring in a new Digital Economy Act, which includes a measure to require all ISP customers to opt out of a default-on filter for adult content. Here's how you can tell them that you're not happy with this proposal, using just your email address.\n\nWho?\n\nIf you're concerned about online porn, you might have already signed a petition on the government's website calling for the default-on filter to be dropped. And in the wake of the controversy around the DEA, you might also have signed a petition demanding that ISPs should automatically block sites known to be involved in the distribution of online child abuse imagery. (Both of those petitions are still open for signatures if you want to join in).\n\nBut now it's time to tell the Government about some of the other things they're doing that are not as sensible, and we'll help you do it.\n\nWhat?\n\nFor a long time now, the UK Government has wanted to bring in a new Digital Economy Act. Last summer, the new law was finally published. The Act is massive, and there's lots to argue with, but it looks like the Government may be preparing to rush it through Parliament without any further debate. That means there's a limited window of opportunity to discuss changes to the draft before it becomes an Act of Parliament, and the Government starts work on enforcing it.\n\nThe draft DEA proposes a number of controversial new laws, including the opt-out default filter that's being discussed so widely. But the Act also proposes lots of other worrying measures, and gives the Government a lot more power to interfere with our online communications. The Act's supporters will tell you that it will help to tackle online infringement, for example. But its many critics argue that it risks stifling innovation in online services, and giving the Government a free hand to censor the internet in other ways.\n\nOn Monday, we told you that you could email your MP to demand a debate on the DEA. Now we've got even more reason to tell the Government that we're not happy with the draft DEA.\n\nThis week, the Pirate Party UK submitted a response to the Department of Business Innovation and Skills (BIS) on the Digital Economy Act, which responds to the Government's consultation on the proposals. We're not the only ones with concerns about the proposals; the Open Rights Group has submitted its own response (pdf) to the Government's consultation, and Index on Censorship has produced a response (pdf).\n\nHere's why we think the Government's proposals are a Bad Thing:\n\nThe proposals for an "Extended Liability for Platforms" could have serious unintended consequences for small internet service providers and independent content sharing websites, making them responsible for policing their services and preventing copyright infringement. We think this is likely to stifle innovation in new services, and also has serious implications for our online privacy.\n\nThe plans for an automatic filtering system to block content that is not classified by the state could lead to a drastic over-blocking of content. It could block more than just "extreme pornography" - it could block access to anything the Government decides is inappropriate. There's no requirement for these filters to be accurate or transparent, so we won't even be able to tell what's been blocked.\n\nUnder the proposals, the Government would also have the power to block websites that it claims are "blatantly" or "unlawfully" infringing copyright. This could be a serious threat to online innovation, and to our online privacy. And again, there's no requirement for these blocks to be accurate or transparent.\n\nThe DEA would make it much easier for the Government to put in place more blocking orders, and extend their scope. The wording of the legislation is vague enough that it could be used to order ISPs to censor content that isn't even illegal. The Government has already said that it wants to use its new powers to stop us from accessing websites that might be used to share copyrighted material.\n\nThe DEA is the biggest threat to our online privacy since the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act. If the Government gets its way, then they'll have the power to block websites and track what we're doing online. And they'll be able to do it without even telling us that it's happening.\n\nYou can read the Pirate Party's full response to the DEA consultation here (pdf).\n\nNow we need your help\n\nIf you're concerned about the DEA, you can join us in telling the Government what you think about the proposed Act.\n\nThe Open Rights Group's response (pdf) to the DEA consultation is still open for signatures. Once they've got enough names on the petition, they'll send their response to the Government.\n\nAnd now we've got our own response to the Government's consultation on the Digital Economy Act. Please support our campaign to stop the Act by signing our response here (pdf).\n\nWe'll be sending our response to the Government later this week, and we hope that it will give people the opportunity to stop the Act before it's too late.\n\nThis is the one chance we have to stop the DEA. But we need your help. Please support our campaign to stop the Act.