Aloha, Hawaii! You're the first state in the union, the 49th state and oh, yeah, the one that's had a fight going on for years about whether to allow GMOs to be grown on the islands.\n\nBut first things first, to the rest of the world Hawaii is known for its pineapples and beaches, but you should also know that the Hawaiian culture is steeped in aloha (love, compassion and joy). When I was a kid and got sick, my mom would bring me aloha soup. She made a big pot of it and brought it to me in bed. It was chicken soup, but it wasn't so much the chicken that I loved but the love.\n\nI felt better.\n\nLove isn't a panacea, but it can go a long way toward healing. If you're an herb lover you know that the first thing most physicians did when they couldn't fix an ailment was to send you to a local wise woman. If your plants are failing, it's likely that the problem is some kind of nutrient deficiency or toxicity, so the first thing you should do is give them love.\n\nHow to give them love? Plant them right, keep them growing at their best and follow the wisdom of gardening. (Wisdom is a hard thing to quantify, but often it can be summarized in some simple phrase or teaching.)\n\nPlant them right\n\nWhen it comes to planting, give your plants plenty of space to stretch their roots. Yes, that means you'll need more pots, but that's why the gardener in Hawaii, and elsewhere, was (and is) paid so well. It takes many days to plant one pineapple or banana tree. With plants that take a while to grow, plant your seeds far enough apart that each seedling will be able to grow big and strong. With smaller plants that don't grow to be tall trees or vines, you can plant them close enough to share their roots and feed off of each other.\n\nYou might be familiar with the practice of placing a stake next to each new plant, holding a length of twine and running it between the stakes to create a trellis. In some areas of Hawaii this is called the Hawaiian strawberry fence.\n\nGive your plants plenty of water. During the dry season they will need water at least once a week. If you're fortunate enough to live in an area where you get rain, that's not enough water. When it comes to watering your plants, think "deep watering." Water your plants slowly over an hour and water them at the same time each day. This ensures that the roots get plenty of water and that the salts that have leached out of the soil are washed away.\n\nYou can make a rain gauge out of an old container (like a gallon milk jug) and a stick to mark the water level. Place it at the top of the container, hold the stick in place, turn it upside down and make your mark on the side. Repeat this once a week and you'll know how much water your garden gets.\n\nAt the other end of the spectrum are some native Hawaiian plants that grow under rocks on mountainsides and that only get rainwater. One of these is the Hawaiian red fern, which is an invasive and does well in rainy zones. In other words, it's one of the plants that will grow best in wet zones.\n\nIf you're looking for a plant that requires minimal care, you can try the kalo (taro). A member of the Araceae family, it grows best in wet zones. This is the staple food of Hawaii and its watery and starchy roots are eaten and made into poi, which is the traditional Hawaiian dish. You can also wrap the cooked roots around meat and it's considered a healthy way to eat your meat. The starchy leaves are eaten too. They are steamed or boiled and eaten as a vegetable.\n\nThis isn't a plant that needs a lot of fertilizer or extra water. It also takes a long time to grow.\n\nIf you're planting an area where it gets warm, you can try the century plant, which is also called agave or maguey. This member of the Asparagus family grows fast and will need lots of water to keep it happy and thriving.\n\nKeep them growing at their best\n\nIn the garden, love is all about care and tending. Give your plants lots of water, but not too much. Every time you fertilize a plant, remember that the fertilizer will run out. When it does, the soil will need to be remineralized. Adding the right fertilizer is important to keeping the plants growing at their best.\n\nFertilize the plants at the same time each week. In Hawaii, this is called the "Rule of Sevens." So, when you're adding the fertilizer, fertilize the plants on Sunday, Wednesday and Friday.\n\nFertilize your plants to promote big root systems. If your plants have well-developed roots, they'll be able to get water, fertilizer and minerals and to push out a healthy harvest. You can fertilize your plants with fish emulsion and water or bone meal and water. It's a good idea to make a mix and apply it on a weekly basis, following the Rule of Sevens. (To mix your own, follow these instructions.)\n\nIn Hawaii, gardening is a constant battle against parasites and disease. These threats to your plants' health will affect their production. A good way to protect your plants from pests and disease is to cover them with floating row covers. Row covers will protect your plants from insects, parasites and wind. They will also keep your plants warm at night. They're especially helpful for plants that need lots of sunlight. You'll know they're getting enough light if they're flowering.\n\nFruit is not the only way that you can tell that your plants are thriving. You can grow veggies too. You can plant squash, onions and other vegetables that will thrive in hot zones.\n\nFollow the wisdom of gardening\n\nGardening is an art form. It's also an old tradition. I've always found that the best advice on gardening is the simplest. Give your plants the love they need and follow the wisdom of gardening. That means to plant them right, give them lots of water, fertilize them, watch out for parasites and disease and give them a break when it's cold outside.\n\nA great resource for Hawaiian gardeners is Growing Hawaiian Plants. The book, written by Cyndi Crawford, is a collection of interviews with 10 experts in Hawaiian plant conservation. The interviews are illustrated with historical images. If you're looking for more inspiration, take a look at David Trigg's TED talk on how to grow the world's most perfect fruit.\n\nResources