Who is Meryl Streep? Meryl Streep is an American actress, singer, and producer who has worked in films and on television. She has won two Academy Awards, eight Golden Globes, twenty Screen Actors Guild Awards, three BAFTAs, five British Academy Film Awards, and has received 30 Oscar nominations, more than any other actor. She is also one of the few performers to have won three of the four major American entertainment awards (EGOT). On November 12, 2012, Streep was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by U.S. President Barack Obama.\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for? Streep is famous for her versatility and is widely considered to be one of the best actresses of her generation. Richard Corliss, a writer for Time magazine, stated that “Streep is “America’s greatest actress”, while Tanya Gold of The Guardian stated that she is “possibly the greatest actress of her generation”, an opinion shared by author and film historian Leonard Maltin. The website Movies.com stated that “Streep is arguably the most accomplished actor of her generation.” Peter Travers of Rolling Stone is in complete agreement, stating that Streep is “the greatest actress of her generation, and one of the greatest of all time.” Michael Schulman of Vanity Fair has described Streep as a “national treasure.” Her acclaimed performances in Sophie’s Choice, Out of Africa, and The Iron Lady have won her the Academy Award for Best Actress, Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role, Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role, as well as numerous critics’ awards. She was also nominated for Academy Awards for her work in The Deer Hunter, Kramer vs. Kramer, Silkwood, and Adaptation. The New York Film Critics Circle, Los Angeles Film Critics Association, National Society of Film Critics, and the London Film Critics’ Circle have also honored her work. In 2005, Streep was honored by the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures with the “Class of ’56 Award” for her “enduring contribution to the art of the screen.” In 2006, she received the AFI Life Achievement Award in recognition of her “outstanding contribution to America’s cinematic heritage.” In 2007, she was honored by the Kennedy Center Honors, where she was also billed as “one of the world’s foremost theatre actresses”, and in 2010 she was awarded the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award for “outstanding contributions to the world of entertainment”. In 2013, she was honoured by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, with a BAFTA Fellowship Award, which is the highest honour that the British Film Academy can give a filmmaker.\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for Doing? Streep is known for starring in films such as Silkwood, Sophie’s Choice, Out of Africa, The Iron Lady, A Cry in the Dark, The French Lieutenant’s Woman, Death Becomes Her, The Bridges of Madison County, One Fine Day, It’s Complicated, Hope Springs, Julie & Julia, It’s Kind of a Funny Story, August: Osage County, and The Giver. She is also known for playing a wide variety of real-life characters, ranging from composers (Roxanne, Silkwood, The Iron Lady) to AIDS activists (The Normal Heart) to a politician (The Manchurian Candidate).\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for Saying? “I don’t know where I get my work ethic. I have a sense that it is like walking a tightrope and that if I fall off I am going to be injured. If I don’t work hard, I’m going to miss something.” “It’s very simple to me. You know, the closer you get to the bone, the truer it is. The closer you get to the edge, the more it is about the character.” “I think of myself as the person who has no qualities. You know, because I play real people. I play very private people who are in pain. You can’t be big enough for that.” “I feel like my intelligence is my most important asset. That and my curiosity.” “I don’t take it on myself to decide what people should find attractive and what they shouldn’t. I don’t think that’s my right.” “I have a hunger for being alive, for being myself. I have a hunger for the things I want.” “It’s important to do things in your life that are hard. If it’s easy, it’s not as much fun.” “It’s good to have a relationship where there’s love and respect, and it’s rare to have that and it’s rare to have that without children. I wouldn’t have had the life I have without the children.”\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for Wearing? Streep has become known for her “iconic” style, in particular her “enviable” shoe collection. The first pair she owned were her “Jimmy Choo red satin sandals”, which she credits with transforming her into an actress, though she now finds them to be “too flashy” for her. She has also mentioned that she collects the footwear of the people she plays. According to Out Magazine, the “interchangeable, inimitable, impossible-to-replicate outfits Meryl Streep wears in her various films and awards shows is, hands down, the most iconic fashion trend of the past three decades.” Streep’s dresses and gowns are most often created by Italian designers such as Valentino, Prada, Armani, and Dolce & Gabbana, but she also uses Ralph Lauren, Giorgio Armani, Donna Karan, Givenchy, Versace, Lanvin, Christian Dior, Oscar de la Renta, and Escada. Her first Oscar dress was an Armani gown that cost $10,000 and her first Golden Globe dress was a dress by Valentino, who later designed the dress she wore to her second Oscar ceremony. At the 2011 Golden Globe Awards, she wore a dress by Australian designer Alex Perry.\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for Saying About Politics? Streep was an active supporter of the Presidential campaign of Barack Obama and also endorsed Howard Dean for the 2004 Presidential election. After Obama’s inauguration, she was invited to join the President and First Lady for the weekend in Aspen, Colorado. In April 2008, Streep and Meryl Streep attended the state funeral of former First Lady of the United States Nancy Reagan. In March 2011, Streep delivered a speech at the 2011 Women’s Media Awards, in which she argued that men’s disdain for the “feminine” contributed to a lack of communication between men and women, which she believes undermines “equality in the workplace.” She also stated that the dominance of men in positions of political power, combined with their lack of ability to communicate effectively, has led to a government “that is shut down, that cannot listen, that can’t talk.” She criticized the Republican Party, accusing it of focusing on money, the size of the federal deficit, and Medicare cuts “while ignoring the country’s infrastructure, educational system and social fabric.” She has also said that if she could run for office, she would be a “socialist.” Streep also supported the Occupy Wall Street movement, calling it “a completely necessary and long-overdue debate about the obscene level of inequality in this country.” In October 2011, Streep, along with other artists and cultural leaders, signed an open letter condemning the incarceration of the director and screenwriter Oleg Sentsov. In 2015, Streep spoke in favor of the nuclear deal between Iran and the P5+1 world powers, calling it “brave and radical”. In May 2016, Streep, an “ardent liberal”, praised President Barack Obama for his “grace” in office and for the work he had done “against the many atrocities” of the Trump administration. She stated that while she had previously remained silent about politics for the sake of her “career and safety”, the country’s current political situation had forced her to break her silence. She said, “We need a strong, sane, courageous leader to save our country and our world, and I’m thrilled to say that leader is finally here.”\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for Believing? Streep has supported Women in Film, a nonprofit organization dedicated to advocating for and improving the work conditions of women in the film industry. In 2010, Streep and seven other female actors were honored by Women in Film with the Crystal Award for excellence in film.\n\nWhat is Meryl Streep Famous for Saying About Love? “Well, I think love has a lot to do with how you show up in your relationships, as well as what your expectations are. Because I feel like, without expectations, you’re open to anything, which is really interesting.” “Love is more important than anything. More important than ambition, more important than money, more important than what you do. I mean