Defending last season's 100-point total is a daunting task, and while I believe it is still attainable, it is not without its challenges. The Raptors have to earn their points in a way that seems impossible, but would be most welcome: through winning the "possession game".\n\nThe problem the Raptors face this season is that their margin of error is very small. While they can theoretically make up for poor shooting with offensive rebounding and easy points at the rim, the big men need to score in order for that to be a viable option. So, if Bargnani and Valanciunas struggle with their shooting and are unable to get easy baskets in the paint, the Raptors will struggle to score. This means that the entire team has to shoot very well, play great defense and rebound the ball with extreme efficiency in order to score at a high level.\n\n\n\nGetting the ball in the paint with great frequency and using quick ball movement and penetration to get high-percentage shots is the path to success for this team. The problem is, the Raptors' options on offense have become somewhat limited by the available personnel.\n\nAs things currently stand, Bargnani and Amir Johnson are the primary frontcourt scorers, but their main offensive moves are a jump-hook and a turnaround jump-shot. Yes, these shots are very effective in the post, but the Raptors will have to find ways to get the ball inside to these players or else they will struggle to score.\n\n\n\nA perfect example of the challenges this poses is seen in the Raptors' win over the Boston Celtics. In this game, the Celtics did a good job of defending the pick-and-roll, which meant that penetration was difficult for the Raptors. While this isn't surprising for a team that relies heavily on its post players, the Raptor big men just aren't able to get their shots in a team setting.\n\n\n\nBargnani is not a good cutter, and when he does cut it looks awkward and unnatural. Valanciunas is much more active in finding a place to set-up for a post-up, but the guards can't be counted on to get him the ball in a position where he can score with any degree of efficiency. So, the Celtics are able to do a decent job of defending Bargnani and Valanciunas by collapsing their defense and giving them only one place to get the ball.\n\nWhen this happens, the Raptors are left with very few options to get a good look at the basket. They are forced to put the ball in their big men's hands, and have them take long shots over taller defenders. This is not a situation in which the Raptors have the personnel to succeed.\n\nThey simply can't use the players they have to get the ball to the big men, and this limits their ability to score.\n\n\n\nGetting the ball inside to their big men requires that the guards be able to drive to the basket and kick the ball out to the big men. With the current personnel, this isn't an option. Lowry and DeRozan are very good penetrators, but the frontcourt is simply too short for them to take advantage of their skill-set.\n\n\n\nThis means that the guards must look for their own offense, and the Raptors offense can become very stagnant. The current options are for Lowry and DeRozan to settle for jumpers, or get the ball to DeMar in the post. Either way, the offense tends to stop moving, and scoring opportunities become very limited.\n\nThis brings us to one of the main takeaways from the first two games of the season: the Raptor big"