Fascism in Australia\n\nFascism in Australia has had a presence, although a minor one, since the 1920s. Historically, these parties and organisations have espoused an assortment of reactionary, national socialist, anti-Semitic and white supremacist doctrines.\n\nThere has been a small and generally short-lived presence of a range of fascist movements in Australia since the 1920s. The first fascist organisation in Australia was the New Guard. The Guard was formed in 1931 as a militia-styled movement to resist the perceived threat of socialism and communism, and was modelled on the British "Blue Shirt" fascist movement. It quickly became a significant force in New South Wales politics, although less so in the other states. At its peak it had about 25,000 members, although by 1935 this had dwindled to 10,000. The Guard continued to operate after the outbreak of World War II, but had largely dissipated by the late 1940s. The only state to have an organised fascist movement during this period was Victoria, where the Victorian Fascist Movement was formed in the 1930s. The Movement held seats in the Victorian Legislative Assembly in 1935 and 1943.\n\nAfter World War II, only two fascist organisations existed in Australia: the British Empire Union and the League of Rights. Both of these organisations were founded in the 1940s and opposed to the spread of communism. A number of other organisations, including the Australian Nationalist Movement, formed in the 1970s, but never achieved significant memberships.\n\nAustralian involvement in World War I saw the emergence of a sense of national identity. This was assisted by the heavy losses of the war and the suffering endured by the Australian people. However, World War I also saw a significant increase in support for the Labor Party, due in part to the prominence of the conscription debate. This led to a significant defeat of the conservative non-Labor forces in the 1917 election, and was a catalyst for the formation of the Nationalist Party in 1917 by former Labor Party members who opposed conscription.\n\nThe Nationalist Party government was a significant force in Australian politics during the 1920s. Although initially there was strong support for the Nationalist Party, this was followed by a split within the party in 1921, which led to the creation of the Country Party. The Country Party attracted some conservatives who opposed the progressive attitudes of the Nationalist government. The establishment of the Country Party was significant, as it represented a conservative block of votes that could not be ignored.\n\nThe formation of the Country Party led to the perception that the non-Labor side of politics was becoming fragmented. This was exacerbated by the replacement of the Nationalist Party leader, former Prime Minister Billy Hughes, by Stanley Bruce in 1923. Hughes' replacement of the Prime Minister is viewed as a pivotal moment in Australian politics, and is characterised as a shift from the leadership style of a "traditional conservative" to that of a "modern conservative". Hughes' tenure as Prime Minister was highly controversial and contributed to the instability of the non-Labor side of politics.\n\nWith the formation of the Country Party, the Nationalist Party became increasingly aligned with business and middle class interests, and was viewed as "the party of the squatters". The perception of this led to the creation of the New Guard in 1931, which was modelled on the British "Blue Shirt" fascist movement. It espoused many of the views of the earlier Old Guard, which had been formed by disgruntled"