Abstract\n\nNAMED ANNE for the woman whom he fell in love with at Cambridge in England, Antaeus was published anonymously by Ronald Firbank in 1921. The novel’s title refers to a mythological giant of the earth who, after killing his father, Poseidon, god of the sea, received a temporary life-extending power by touching the ground of his native land. Antaeus is at once a pastoral, a philosophical novel, and a novel of ideas, written in a highly subjective style, alternately whimsical and solemn, with little narrative plot. The philosophical dialogue at the heart of the novel is, in Firbank’s own words, “unquestionably the most serious” discussion of the meaning of human existence. The heart of the novel is its chapter-long philosophical dialogue, set in June 1909, in the “small octagonal bedroom” of a country house in the English countryside. Firbank’s dialogue contrasts two ways of thinking about life: the skeptical, unappreciative way of Bernard, and the intellectual way of Ronald. While Firbank provides a general philosophical perspective, the characters express their own views. Bernard does so quite unconvincingly. His thought process is episodic, and he characteristically responds with clichés and hasty platitudes, rather than with carefully considered thought.\n\nBut Firbank’s major work, which he completed in 1920, was the novel Inclinations. First published in the United States in 1924, Inclinations is a sensualist novel, and an example of what Firbank calls “new sensualism,” a novelistic genre that—like its eighteenth-century prototype, Richardson’s Pamela—affirms the place of physical attraction in human relations. The four characters in Inclinations are: Michael, a civil servant; Michael’s mother, Lady Mary; Margaret, Michael’s fiancée; and Catherine, the female protagonist. Firbank provides much physical detail, but he leaves sexual activity to the reader’s imagination. Michael’s mother and Catherine are the two central characters in the novel. Lady Mary is an unhappy, frustrated woman who gives the novel its title, “Inclinations.” An unhappy wife to a man who was old enough to be her father, she had a brief but passionate affair with a young Russian countess, whom she subsequently envied and reviled. Lady Mary is a sensualist in a more important sense: She cannot bear to be without pleasure. In particular, she cannot bear to be without sensual pleasure. After her husband’s death, she lives alone in the family mansion. She travels the countryside and surrounding villages, in the summer and at other times, seeking romantic adventures. She is too old for physical pleasure, but she takes enormous pleasure in relating to other people. Her house is full of pictures of her adventures. She finds pleasure in listening to Michael and Catherine tell their love story. The house is like an Aladdin’s cave of sensual pleasures. She gives them an enthusiastic welcome and sets about making their home into a sensualist haven. Catherine is Michael’s wife. She is about twenty-two years old, and she is a sensualist in the most ordinary, everyday sense. “Her sensuality was deep and complete,” Firbank says, “like that of a child or a dog” (37). Catherine’s sensualism is the sensualism of passion, and in her case, as in so many others, the passion takes a sexual form. Michael is a sensualist, but not in the most ordinary, everyday sense. He and his mother are close, and Firbank presents them as loving one another. Firbank’s theme is their relation, rather than the sexual relation between them. But Firbank’s novel has a second theme. He has another focus. He is fascinated by the relation between Catherine and Lady Mary. He has a second sensualist couple, which is a parallel couple. The relation between these two women is central to the novel, and is highly erotic. As with Lady Mary’s and the Russian countess’s relation, so the relation between Catherine and Lady Mary is highly sensual. The relation between the two women is physical. When the three of them live together, Lady Mary “stands very near” Catherine (34). Lady Mary “cuddles” Catherine. Catherine sleeps in Lady Mary’s room. Lady Mary “eats her food at the same table as Catherine.” She takes Catherine to a dressmaker, and sits in on the fitting. “‘How lovely you look!’” she says to Catherine (34–35). Firbank carefully portrays the sensual side of their relation. “Catherine had been happy. She had felt as if she were in love with Lady Mary.” The relationship “was like a very long succession of touches” (32). In Inclinations, the relation between Lady Mary and Catherine is the most physically erotic relationship in the novel, and it is the most sensualist.