"Dead Space is a popular sci-fi horror game franchise from Visceral Games and Electronic Arts. In addition to two sequels and several handheld spin-offs, the series also has an animated movie called Dead Space: Aftermath which was released in 2011. The movie is set between the events of Dead Space and Dead Space 2.\n\nThis week, we're looking at the movie's trailer and comparing it to its source material. I've played through the game and watched the movie and will be judging the trailer based on what was included in the movie. I'll only be judging the first 30 seconds of the trailer to get an idea of what to expect from the whole movie.\n\nThe trailer starts with a shot of the U.S.G Ishimura, the ship from Dead Space. In the game, the ship is overrun by the necromorphs and infested with scary creatures. The Ishimura's distress beacon is flashing, indicating it's under attack. However, the ship looks too clean to be infested. It's not enough to see the ship itself, you would have to see the dead bodies and monsters crawling around to get the idea.\n\nNext, we see a number of humans fleeing from something off-screen. In the game, they would be running from the necromorphs that have overrun the Ishimura. Unfortunately, they're all human beings in a space suit. You'd have to be pretty stupid to mistake that for the necromorphs. Plus, there's no one attacking the humans. In the game, there would be an endless amount of monsters chasing after the players. There wouldn't be a calm look to everything.\n\nThe next shot shows an exterior shot of the Ishimura while the camera rotates around it. Again, it's too clean to be infested.\n\nNext, we see a shot of some characters, all looking shocked. Again, there's no reason for this if it's not an infestation. It's a bit like seeing a normal-looking family in a horror movie. No one is scared. In fact, there's no real reason for them to be on the Ishimura, which is supposed to be an extremely dangerous place.\n\nThe next shot shows the captain of the Ishimura, Gibb, running up a long ramp. In the game, the Ishimura is more like a battle station than a ship, so the captain would be in the control room. We then see someone telling Gibb to "get everyone out of here." This person has to be an important character from the game or a secondary character. But I'm guessing the person is Gibb's secretary. Again, there's no one yelling or crying. In fact, it seems like the only reason for them to be running around is because it's time to leave.\n\nThe last shot shows the Ishimura firing on something. It looks like they're firing at something, but it's a small target in the distance. The characters aren't running around like it's an emergency. It doesn't look like they're fighting a desperate battle. In fact, the trailer is too clean. All of the shots look like they were taken in a clean studio, not the remains of a space station.