Anjaane\n\nAnjaane () is a 2003 Bollywood film, directed by Vikram Bhatt. It stars Ajay Devgn and Ayesha Takia in lead roles and Kunal Khemu, Nafisa Ali and Rajpal Yadav in supporting roles. The film is a remake of the American movie "Unfaithful".\n\nThis movie was an average grosser at the box office.\n\nA middle class girl, Meghna (Ayesha Takia) lives with her divorced mother, Dr. Kamla Tiwari (Reema Lagoo), a well known psychiatrist, and her younger sister in the suburbs of Mumbai. Her parents had divorced when she was just two years old, and she has hardly seen her father, Colonel Rameshwar Prasad (Deepak Shirke), ever since.\n\nRajeev Mathur (Ajay Devgn), a renowned architect, is married to Sheetal (Ayesha Julka), who is the love of Meghna's life. Meghna falls in love with Rajeev, and they become involved in an illicit relationship. One day, while trying to evade Rajeev, Meghna witnesses an incident where her father, whom she had not met for more than twelve years, is found dead at a friend's farmhouse.\n\nShe goes to his funeral and is completely shocked to see Rajeev there. On confronting him, she is told that he and her father were old friends and colleagues. She accepts this, but not before starting to suspect that Rajeev has been trying to get her out of the way in order to take over her father's position. She confronts Rajeev on this, but he insists that this is not the case.\n\nMeghna, unable to bear the thought that her father was killed, decides to investigate on her own. She tracks down one of the servants at the farmhouse, who reveals that her father was shot, and that Rajeev was there, drunk, when it happened. She confronts Rajeev, who admits that he and her father were involved in a fraud, in which they stole money from one of their clients, and faked his death to escape justice. However, Rajeev swears that he has nothing to do with her father's death.\n\nShe believes him, and accepts that she was wrong in suspecting him. While trying to console her, he kisses her. They decide to meet the next day. However, on the way to her meeting with Rajeev, she finds him being confronted by her mother and sister, who saw him leaving their house. Rajeev confesses to them that he and Meghna have been involved in a relationship, but insists that they didn't do anything wrong.\n\nAfter much debate, her family decides to agree to the relationship. Rajeev insists that Meghna move in with them, but she is shocked to learn that she is pregnant with his child. She insists that Rajeev take a DNA test to prove that the child is his, and he does so.\n\nHe confesses to her that he was never married to his wife, and had no children. He had always been in love with Meghna, but had not told anyone about it, not even her father. Sheetal had left him for another man, who later divorced her, and Rajeev's father was killed by one of his clients, who then blackmailed him. He promises that they will run away together, but Meghna doesn't believe him.\n\nLater that night, Rajeev is killed, and Meghna is accused of the murder. Dr. Tiwari believes her daughter, and begins to suspect that Sheetal might be the murderer. The police refuse to believe Dr. Tiwari's story, and the family falls apart. Meghna is released, but her mother refuses to see her, and she is forced to live with her uncle and his family.\n\nWhen the child is born, the family is forced to admit that the child does bear a close resemblance to Rajeev. They forgive Meghna and re-accept her. She goes to Rajeev's mother (Nafisa Ali), and tells her that the child is Rajeev's. His mother is grief-stricken, but eventually decides to accept Meghna, and asks her to name the child, since Rajeev was also hers. Meghna decides to name the child after her father.\n\n\n\nAll songs were composed by Sandeep Chowta, written by Sameer, and performed by Udit Narayan and Kumar Sanu.\n\n