"Power Consumption\n\nIdle: Windows Vista Aero sitting at the desktop (1280x1024 32-bit) all windows closed, drivers installed. Card left to warm up in idle mode until power draw was stable.\n\nMulti-monitor: Two monitors connected to the tested card, both using different display timings. Windows Vista Aero sitting at the desktop (1280x1024 32-bit) all windows closed, drivers installed. Card left to warm up in idle mode until power draw was stable.\n\nAverage: Crysis 2 at 1920x1200, Extreme profile, representing a typical gaming power draw. Average of all readings (12 per second) while the benchmark was rendering (no title/loading screen).\n\nPeak: Crysis 2 at 1920x1200, Extreme profile, representing a typical gaming power draw. Highest single reading during the test.\n\nMaximum: Furmark Stability Test at 1280x1024, 0xAA. This results in a very high non-game power-consumption that can typically be reached only with stress-testing applications. Card left running stress-test until power draw converged to a stable value.\n\nBlu-ray Playback: Power DVD 9 Ultra was used at a resolution of 1920x1200 to play back the Batman: The Dark Knight disc with GPU acceleration turned on. Playback started around timecode 1:19, which has the highest data rates on the BD with up to 40 Mb/s. Playback was left running until power draw converged to a stable value.\n\nCooling modern video cards is becoming more and more difficult, especially when users are asking for quiet cooling solutions. That's why the engineers are now paying much more attention to power consumption of new video-card designs.For this test, we measured the power consumption of the graphics card only via the PCI-Express power connector(s) and PCI-Express bus slot. A Keithley Integra 2700 digital multimeter with 6.5-digit resolution was used for all measurements. Again, the values here reflect only the power consumption of the card measured at DC VGA card inputs, not of the whole system.We choseas a standard test representing typical 3D gaming usage because it offers the following: very high power draw; high repeatability; is a current game that is supported on all cards because of its DirectX 9 roots; drivers are actively tested and optimized for it; supports all multi-GPU configurations; test runs in a relatively short time and renders a non-static scene with variable complexity.To measure the power consumption of our testbed we used a digital power meter (Keithley Integra 2700) connected before the power supply. The power consumption measurement of the system is based on the power consumption of the drives, not of the graphics cards. All cards were tested with a total of four SSDs: one in the system, one used as a primary test drive in a slot without a powered connector, and two additional drives in the system (not used for testing). The SSDs are Western Digital WD360GD (362GB), WD1500HLHX (150GB), Samsung SSD 830 (128GB) and OCZ Agility 3 (240GB).Idle power consumption of the whole test system (at the desktop) is measured after sitting idle at the desktop for 30 minutes. The cards are not closed. The result is presented as the average value of all four cards.Please note that after extensive testing, we found that measuring idle power consumption only, as seen in many other reviews, can be misleading. Due to different testing methodology and environments, this number can be significantly lower than the real power consumption. Also, in many cases, the card does not reach the desired idle temperature, so it will draw more power. In our test setup, the cards reach their idle temperature very quickly (in a few minutes) and in a climate controlled room (22°C).Therefore, we use this only as a rough indication of the cards' power consumption.Please note we are using different adjustements to test the performance of our graphics cards. Our testing methodology is detailed here . It's worth mentioning that our method allows us to perform a more thorough test that's free from GPU bottlenecks. It's also free from variations caused by dual-gpu/hybrid configurations.The following two values are the peak power consumption and the maximum power consumption of our testbed (without speakers/headphones) measured after long periods of use (at least 15 minutes) with Windows Aero enabled. The peak power consumption is the maximum power draw of the graphics card only, measured in the most stressful situation (generally, when it's overclocked). The maximum power consumption is the maximum power draw of the complete testbed, including the monitor, speakers, hard-disk, SSD, etc.The results are impressive. Idle power consumption is a tiny bit higher than that of the GTX 580. All cards operate at fairly low power levels in idle. NVIDIA has done a good job reducing idle power consumption of its GTX 680. Under full load, the GTX 680 is only slightly more power hungry than the GTX 580. Compared to AMD, the GTX 680 fares even better as it uses slightly less power than the HD 7970.All graphics cards tested consume quite a lot of power during Blu-ray playback. Interestingly, this is one area where NVIDIA can't keep up with AMD.