I was only around 4 or 5, so I was not old enough to ride alone, and this is one of the only pictures of me with my dad. He always liked his motorcycle, but I am sure he would be even more thrilled with his daughter riding around.\n\nSometimes when I am out on my motorcycle, people ask me how I got into it. It is not something that I started from an early age. I actually have not ridden a motorcycle for more than a few years, but I have always had a soft spot in my heart for them.\n\nI was only around 4 or 5, so I was not old enough to ride alone, and this is one of the only pictures of me with my dad. He always liked his motorcycle, but I am sure he would be even more thrilled with his daughter riding around.\n\nHe always had a motorcycle on the side. This is another picture of my dad and me when I was very little. We used to ride on his motorcycle with him on the back, and me in front with my head over the seat. I could always feel him riding around with me, and he always made me feel so secure. He was always a very good father. I would love to have more time with him.\n\nThat was what motorcycles were for him. He never had time to go off on a road trip or anything like that, but he loved the feeling of riding.\n\nHe always rode a Yamaha, but he never wanted anything too fancy. He always said that they were built so strong, and that you didn’t need all of the other features to have a great ride. He said that they were built well and would last for a long time.\n\nI always wanted to get one, but I never had enough money. He was always happy to teach me how to ride, but he also wanted to be there with me. I still get on the back of my boyfriend’s bike, and I feel like I am with him.\n\nMy dad had a terrible accident on his motorcycle, and he was taken to the hospital where he was on the road to recovery. He had a broken leg, which led to some complications that he could not overcome. He passed away a few days later, and he was only 52 years old.\n\nWe all had a lot of great memories together, and I am sure he would be so happy that I now own a motorcycle. I don’t go out on long trips, but I love riding my motorcycle around town. I am sure he would be thrilled that I am out and about on my own motorcycle.