"This was an article that I originally wrote for The Times of Malta newspaper in September 2009.\n\nAs the refugee and asylum seeker debate in Europe gets more and more heated, it is easy to lose sight of the facts. It is especially easy to lose sight of the reality of the African situation. Many people are aware of how people are fleeing to the shores of Europe from conflict zones in Afghanistan and Iraq. Fewer are aware of the scale of the problem from countries such as Eritrea, or for that matter countries such as Ivory Coast, Kenya, Sudan, Zimbabwe and so on.\n\nThe United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has estimated that there are more than 2 million refugees and asylum seekers who have been unable to find protection from their own government in other parts of Africa. It is a significant number, and one that needs to be more widely known about and understood.\n\nAt the moment, of the 42,000 people who applied for asylum in the EU in the first six months of 2009, less than 1,000 were from African countries. This is less than 3%. The real number of refugees from Africa is likely to be far higher. It is common for refugees to pass through a country such as Libya before reaching the shores of Europe, to make their claims to asylum as European citizens.\n\nThere is a high level of awareness about the refugee situation in the Middle East, but comparatively little awareness about Africa. There is still a common perception that refugees are white, European and middle-class. This is a mistaken perception. The truth is that refugees can be from any walk of life and any country. While it is a hard and dangerous trip to the shores of Europe from war zones in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is not much easier to make that journey from neighbouring countries such as Eritrea.\n\nThe Eritrean government has an abysmal record in protecting the human rights of its own people. According to Amnesty International, the human rights situation is described as being among the worst in the world. Torture and unlawful detention are the norm. This is combined with an almost complete absence of an independent judiciary. The entire state apparatus is controlled by the government.\n\nThe human rights situation in the country is an issue that has been raised by successive European governments, and by the US State Department. Yet while asylum claims from Iraqis and Afghanis have rocketed in the last two years, those from Eritrea have not increased.\n\nThe reason is simply the lack of awareness and the unwillingness of the EU governments to accept Eritrean asylum seekers. This is despite the fact that the country is a leading source of refugees and asylum seekers. The current refugee policy in the EU focuses on countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan. Eritrea is overlooked, with the implication that the human rights situation is not so bad there. The sad fact is that many of the refugees from Eritrea would qualify for asylum in the EU.\n\nIt is in this context that the EU should review its current policy towards refugees and asylum seekers. At the moment, it focuses on the neighbouring Middle East countries, as it seeks to reduce the number of asylum seekers arriving on European shores. This is a necessary policy, but it should not mean that the issue of refugees and asylum seekers from the rest of Africa should be ignored. As the numbers of refugees from other African countries will increase, the policy should be focused on them.\n\nThe EU needs to set up an asylum policy which covers all of Africa, and to ensure that the real needs of refugees are given the necessary protection. It also needs to ensure that the safety of asylum seekers who arrive at the EU’s borders is taken into account. The policy needs to focus on the rights of refugees and asylum seekers. These rights are already guaranteed in the Geneva Conventions.