"Twitter is the perfect platform to get the word out there about anything you are trying to promote. I am a huge fan of using Twitter as a marketing tool, even more than Facebook. It’s a great way to network and reach out to people who are interested in what you have to offer. Here is my list of 10 tips to help you promote anything you are selling on Twitter:\n\n1. Use Hashtags\n\nI love using hashtags on Twitter. They help to promote the things you are interested in and create a sense of community within a group. I will admit that it can be hard to remember hashtags to use for all the things you promote. One way I suggest to overcome this is to put your hashtags in a Twitter search to make sure they are not already being used. This will save you some time and help you avoid any issues down the road.\n\n2. Retweet\n\nIf you like a tweet, retweet it! I’m sure most people are familiar with the concept of retweeting, but I just wanted to put it out there to make sure it was stated. Retweeting is a great way to share the things you like, and can be a great way to show your audience that you are involved in the social media community and help them feel more comfortable doing business with you.\n\n3. Mention\n\nMentioning someone on Twitter is a great way to show your audience that you are engaged and want to interact with them. It is important to mention other people within your field of interest in order to show your audience that you are well connected. I always make sure to mention people who have liked or retweeted my stuff as well. It makes me feel good when I get a mention and it shows that the people I engage with are interested in what I have to say.\n\n4. Post About Your Daily Life\n\nThere is nothing wrong with posting about your daily life and about other stuff you like. I’m sure you all know about the Twitter feeds that are all business. I don’t like following people like that because I feel like it takes away from the idea of the social aspect of Twitter. By being a person and talking about your life, you can show your audience that you are a real person and are interested in other people’s lives as well. I’m sure you have seen some tweets about people’s lives that you thought were really cool, and the people that posted those tweets have engaged you because of it.\n\n5. Be Social\n\nDon’t forget to be social. I’m sure that when you first started out you didn’t know what to do on Twitter. My suggestion to you is to find some people who are interested in the things you are and start a conversation. You will see that the conversations that start on Twitter are real and can be interesting. One of my favorite things to do on Twitter is to start conversations with people. It gives me the chance to learn from other people and also helps them learn about me.\n\n6. Use Pictures\n\nI love using pictures on Twitter. I know a lot of people like to include pictures when they post about things, and I would like to suggest that you do so as well. Including a picture with your tweet can get you more retweets and likes, and can really help to boost the effectiveness of your post. I like to use pictures from Instagram with my tweets, but you can really use any picture. If you want to make a picture of yourself that has an impact on your audience, I would suggest using a tool like Socialbakers.\n\n7. Use Hashtags That Make Sense\n\nI’ve touched on this before, but I want to emphasize it again. It is important to make sure that you are using hashtags that make sense. You don’t want to hashtag your tweets with irrelevant hashtags just to get a retweet or a like. You also don’t want to make hashtags that are too long. I would suggest keeping your hashtags short and relevant.\n\n8. Direct Message\n\nThere are times when a DM is more appropriate than a tweet. You will be surprised at how many people DM you. I think a lot of people just use it to ask questions, but you can also use it to network. I think a lot of people don’t use DMs because they don’t think their audience will see it. If you are going to send a DM, make sure it is personal. Send it to someone who is following you. It’s a lot less likely that they will check the people they follow to see who is sending them a DM, so if you DM a person that is following you, they are much more likely to respond.\n\n9. Use Images\n\nI want to encourage you to use images with your tweets. Images are the first thing people look at, so you want to make sure that you are using good images. One thing I like to do is to include images with my tweets. I’m sure you have seen a lot of Twitter profiles that do this. It helps to keep your tweets interesting and make your tweets more unique.\n\n10. Be You\n\nThis last one is really important. You want to be yourself on Twitter. The more genuine you are, the better. People can see through a fake personality. You want to engage with your audience and show them who you are. When they see you as a real person, it will help to build a more trusting relationship between you and your audience.\n\nThere you have it! I hope these tips help you to improve your Twitter account and that your business gets better because of it. I always love getting comments from you all, so if you have any more suggestions or questions, feel free to drop me a comment below.