Dear Reader, As you can imagine, more people are reading The Jerusalem Post than ever before. Nevertheless, traditional business models are no longer sustainable and high-quality publications, like ours, are being forced to look for new ways to keep going. Unlike many other news organizations, we have not put up a paywall. We want to keep our journalism open and accessible and be able to keep providing you with news and analyses from the frontlines of Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.\n\nThe proposal for a binational state on Israel’s future borders with the Palestinians, put forth by outgoing Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, is no longer an acceptable solution, former Knesset speaker Avraham Burg said Wednesday.\n\n\n\nSpeaking in an interview with Channel 10, Burg said that the proposal, which the Olmert presented last week to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, was “naïve and counterproductive.”\n\n\n\n\n\nJPOST VIDEOS THAT MIGHT INTEREST YOU:\n\n“Israelis don’t want to live in a binational state. One can’t create a state of Jews and Arabs, and not even a state that is a nation of all its citizens,” Burg said. “I don’t see any logic in it, even less so now than five years ago.”The former Kadima party leader argued that a similar situation exists in Ireland, with the Irish living alongside the English, but not in a single state.Similarly, he said, one could not build a future Palestinian state within the borders of Israel, but one can build a state of all its citizens in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and eastern Jerusalem.If the Israeli government doesn’t agree to this, he warned, the two-state solution is no longer attainable.“What we need is an understanding that [an agreement with the Palestinians] will be built on borders and not on a state of all its citizens. We’ll build two states on the 1967 borders, one Jewish and one Palestinian,” Burg said.“Israelis need to know that [in the future] there will be two states,” he continued. “The Palestinian people needs to know that [in the future] there will be a Palestinian state.”The two-state solution is the only way to prevent the State of Israel from becoming the State of the Jewish people, the Knesset speaker warned. “The future of the State of Israel depends on the existence of two states,” he said.“I’m for a binational state only as a stage, not as a solution,” he added. “In a binational state, we will never live together, but there will be an agreement. If there’s no agreement, there will be a civil war. We have to prepare for a binational state as a transition stage to the two-state solution.”When asked about the present leadership’s decision to allow MK Otniel Schneller (Kadima) to bring a vote of no-confidence in Defense Minister Ehud Barak, Burg accused Barak of “enthusiastic nationalism” and of being “naïve.”\n\nJoin Jerusalem Post Premium Plus now for just $5 and upgrade your experience with an ads-free website and exclusive content. Click here>>\n\n\n\n