"Of or relating to, or being a composite figure formed by the merging of two or more figures, especially of a human with an animal, in art or sculpture.\n\nPenderecki's stylistic pluralism in this score [for F.W. Murnau's 'Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens'] is part of an effort to break down the wall between music and non-music, so that [in] one of his earlier pieces, for example, the movement titles are "slur," "tremolo," "pizzicato," and "slide."\n\nMore\n\nPage 4 The third attempt [to emulate a voice] is a little bit more relaxed, and the fourth one is even more relaxed than that. And then you can go back to normal; it's really beautiful. It's like some sort of sacrifice. I enjoy that a lot. When I can start screaming and moaning again, it's great! (Johansson, 1999: 45) The breath that is drawn to fill a singing... Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 10 There's some sort of connection with Wagner, which I enjoy, and certainly it's also that kind of, shall I say, coital language which I think is very satisfying as well. But I like the fact that it's a sort of construct; I mean, I don't sing when I'm not singing. And I don't actually scream or moan in my daily life; it's sort of something that you have to put into place. So it's a sort of creation, in a way. (Johansson, 1999: 44) The... Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 12 Vocalise can be performed in either voice, although with her soprano's voice, she tends to sing it in the higher register. When performed, it is sometimes accompanied by a second performer on the same instrument, or on a synthesiser, who plays a free counterpoint melody, as the example in Ex. 1.2 shows. She cites her admiration for the performance of Zeena Parkins, who performed the Vocalise with Paal Nilssen-Love on drums. Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 8 All vocalise exercises start with a very long inhalation, held while the hands remain fixed in the starting position. The breathing is then let out slowly, with the hands moving from the starting position down through the air. This is done very slowly in the lower register, and more quickly in the upper register. She states that this exercise works on voice-control and breath-control, and is performed slowly and evenly with the diaphragm. Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 8 All vocalise exercises start with a very long inhalation, held while the hands remain fixed in the starting position. The breathing is then let out slowly, with the hands moving from the starting position down through the air. This is done very slowly in the lower register, and more quickly in the upper register. She states that this exercise works on voice-control and breath-control, and is performed slowly and evenly with the diaphragm. Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 10 It's part of the artistic process, really. The singer is in charge of that and you are the vessel, really. You're letting something in and then releasing something. It's not like I'm releasing something that's already inside me; it's more that I'm allowing something to enter me. I mean, when I say singing it's sort of like, you know, you don't just go "ah, ah, ah, ah" when you're singing. I have some kind of technique, I guess, but it's more about opening up and releasing something that's already there. I mean... Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 10 It's part of the artistic process, really. The singer is in charge of that and you are the vessel, really. You're letting something in and then releasing something. It's not like I'm releasing something that's already inside me; it's more that I'm allowing something to enter me. I mean, when I say singing it's sort of like, you know, you don't just go "ah, ah, ah, ah" when you're singing. I have some kind of technique, I guess, but it's more about opening up and releasing... Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nPage 10 Vocalise can be performed in either voice, although with her soprano's voice, she tends to sing it in the higher register. When performed, it is sometimes accompanied by a second performer on the same instrument, or on a synthesiser, who plays a free counterpoint melody, as the example in Ex. 1.2 shows. She cites her admiration for the performance of Zeena Parkins, who performed the Vocalise with Paal Nilssen-Love on drums. Appears in 2 books from 2000-2004\n\nLess