"Dramatic news on the wildfire front this week, as a fire near Chico, California exploded in size over the weekend, swallowing up nearly 26,000 acres and burning through 150 structures. Firefighters have been working around the clock to stop the fire from burning even more, and officials hope to have the fire fully contained by Thursday.\n\nThe fire has forced nearly 6,000 residents to flee the area. Fortunately, so far there have been no reports of serious injuries or loss of life.\n\nThis disaster highlights an ongoing issue of tremendous concern: there is no easy solution for firefighters in situations like these. As fires get more destructive and grow larger, there’s not enough fire equipment to deal with them. What firefighters need is a new breed of firefighting technology.\n\nFor decades, we’ve relied on the same types of water-based firefighting tactics, like water-dropping aircraft and helicopters, to fight fires. Unfortunately, these methods are ineffective against large wildfires.\n\nFirefighters often attempt to use backfires, which are purposely-set fires meant to stop a larger fire’s spread, but these techniques also do not work as well as they once did. Backfires are notoriously dangerous, and as fires get larger, they become too dangerous for firefighters to use.\n\nIn the past, the use of dynamite and chainsaws were also common, but they’re also inefficient.\n\nWater-dropping aircraft are effective, but unfortunately, we don’t have enough of them, and they can’t fight fires in dangerous places like mountainous areas. This is why helicopters, often seen carrying buckets of water, are so useful.\n\nAs wildfires continue to burn larger, more and more people are going to need to be evacuated. We need new, improved tactics for firefighting. In this modern age, it’s not feasible for thousands of people to have to evacuate their homes and businesses on a daily basis, especially since it’s now common for wildfires to burn thousands of acres in a single day.\n\nThis week, I spoke with Nathan Meehan, director of innovation at Global SuperTanker. He told me that his organization’s planes use specialized tank technology to deliver a huge payload of fire retardant.\n\n“Our aircraft is a modified Boeing 747-400 jumbo jet, the most fire retardant that has ever been delivered at one time,” he said.\n\nSupertankers can carry up to 12,000 gallons of retardant and make multiple drops from high altitudes, while being guided by skilled pilots.\n\nTo date, Supertanker has helped fight fires in California, Portugal, France and Israel, and they’ve just been authorized to fight fires in Chile.\n\n“We are committed to firefighting, and this fire [in California] really highlights the need for technology like this,” he said. “We believe that Supertankers can stop and prevent large wildfires from spreading as they currently are.”\n\nFirefighters on the ground also need to do a better job at protecting homes and businesses from destruction. Right now, we have a “firefighting gap,” where there aren’t enough firefighters to protect buildings and homes that are threatened by wildfires.\n\nA recent study in California’s Sierra Nevada Foothills found that the “firefighting gap” is getting larger, and that current strategies are not sufficient to protect homes and property. The study concluded that more homes are likely to be lost in wildfires, as well as more money spent to protect homes.\n\nIt’s clear that we need new tactics for fighting fires. It’s time for firefighters to be equipped with the most effective equipment to help them do their job, and new methods need to be implemented to protect homes from loss.\n\nPeter Zalzal is an environmental attorney with EDF.