Most readers were up in arms when DC Comics spoiled the ending of Batman V Superman: Dawn of Justice by including it on the cover of the movie's official soundtrack. That's especially since the actual soundtrack listing, which featured most of the score by composer Hans Zimmer, didn't include a sample of the song at all.\n\nWell, now fans can finally listen to a sample of that cover and get a better idea of what the soundtrack may offer. The cover song was recorded by Gary Clark Jr., and while it's pretty good, it's definitely missing something.\n\nAfter that fateful sequence in the movie, you'd think the song would feel more emotionally impactful, but instead it just feels hollow and shallow. It's not terrible, but the soundtrack version of the song isn't quite as strong as the cover version of the song.\n\nThe thing is, the song is actually pretty good, and it's fitting for the movie and doesn't feel out of place. However, because it doesn't fit the tone of the movie or soundtrack, it just doesn't sound like it belongs.\n\nIt's not like other DC films and scores, and doesn't mesh well with what fans have come to expect from DC's superhero movies. Granted, the movie isn't exactly like other DC films, and there's no way to predict what people would come to expect.\n\nThe movie is full of fun and action, so it's only fitting that the score reflects that and that it has a big, loud, rock 'n' roll sound. If it had an emotional and subdued soundtrack, it wouldn't be a good fit for the movie or the characters.\n\nWhile Zimmer may have done an excellent job with the music in the movie, it's not necessarily the best soundtrack or music that fits the film. Not that it was his fault or that it was his decision, but the movie's soundtrack is definitely lacking.\n\nThis is because they were trying to keep the movie as secretive as possible, and didn't want anyone to know what the ending was going to be.\n\nIn all honesty, it's not necessarily a bad idea, and most people don't care about the soundtrack anyway. It was the choice of song that people took issue with, and for good reason.\n\nThat said, it doesn't change the fact that the song is pretty good, and it's actually one of the better songs on the soundtrack, which doesn't say much for it.\n\nFor those who haven't seen the movie, the song is one of the more emotional songs on the soundtrack. It's also the first one that plays, and it's used to set the tone of the movie, which is definitely a major part of the movie.\n\nIn the beginning of the movie, when Bruce Wayne is discussing Superman with Alfred, he says, "They’ll fight. They’ll kill. And when it’s over, the world will be broken. We have to stop them."\n\nAnd then the song kicks in with a pretty sad tune, almost as if Bruce is predicting the future. It's an emotional and heavy song that sets the tone for the rest of the movie, and it fits the mood perfectly.\n\nIn the beginning, Clark Jr. is just talking about fighting, and while it sounds fine, it lacks the raw emotion and angst that the song needed to convey.\n\nWhen Clark sings, "They’ll fight. They’ll kill. And when it’s over, the world will be broken," the lyrics don't sound like they have any emotion or that the artist is really singing them. They just sound like he's repeating what's in the song without any real feeling behind it.\n\nIn the soundtrack version, Clark sounds like he's trying to convey emotion and feeling, and he sounds like he's actually singing the song instead of just reciting it.\n\nWhile the soundtrack version is much more emotional and powerful, the soundtrack version is just not as well done as the cover version. It's still one of the better songs on the soundtrack, but the difference in emotion and quality is quite noticeable.\n\nHopefully, the cover version isn't the final version of the song, and there will be an official version of the soundtrack that includes more of the score, and hopefully that version of the song.\n\nEither way, the movie is still amazing, and fans will just have to deal with what they get when the soundtrack is released.\n\nBatman V Superman: Dawn of Justice is now playing in theaters.