OK, this is all you need to know about this whole "Ryan Fitzpatrick's against the Browns" narrative that is now in full force, after his dismal performance against the Browns last year, and has been growing in fervor ever since news of his re-signing broke last week:\n\nIt's not going to happen again.\n\nYou may not believe it now, and it may not be true on Sunday when the Browns take on the Bucs in their Week 1 matchup. But just like the Browns have a way of winning the games they're supposed to, Fitzpatrick has a way of having performances like he did against the Browns last year.\n\nIt just happens in reverse.\n\nThe defense was ranked 30th in the league in pass defense and would give up more yards in the first quarter than in the entire game the year before, yet it's Fitzpatrick who throws for 5,367 yards and 40 touchdowns that year. That's not a typo. And it's not because he was the quarterback of the future and Josh Gordon was the No. 1 receiver of the future, either. (We'll ignore the fact that the Browns traded for Jason Campbell at the end of the season to play quarterback and traded away Trent Richardson for basically nothing.)\n\nFitzpatrick and the Browns were matched up against each other in the third week of the 2012 season, and by that point in the season Fitzpatrick had thrown for 4,008 yards and 27 touchdowns in just 12 games. He finished the season with an astronomical 8.18 yards per attempt, which was the highest in NFL history. (Since 2001, at least.) He averaged two touchdowns per game for the first three weeks of that season before throwing just five more in the final nine games.\n\nAnd that was in his first season with the Bucs. They acquired him on the last day of August, after he'd spent the last few months being cut and re-signed by the Bills, which was the latest example of the Bills treating him like a starting quarterback without actually starting him. When the Bucs traded for him, it was widely considered a sign that they'd be moving on from Josh Freeman, but Fitzpatrick's job was only to hold the fort. He didn't even start his first game until the Bucs' eighth game of the season.\n\nThis time around, Fitzpatrick is more than holding the fort. The Bucs have put him on the short list of best quarterbacks in the NFL, with his name appearing on every single MVP ballot last year, and after a few years of analysts treating him like a highly replaceable backup, he has emerged as a bonafide starter. And like most No. 1 quarterbacks, he also seems to thrive against certain teams.\n\nIt seems like a good rule of thumb to get out of the way when he's playing his best.\n\nThe Bucs will almost definitely start out slow against the Browns on Sunday, but they're not going to go through another slow start and blow a lead against the Browns for a second time. It just won't happen.\n\nThis is a different year, a different Browns team, and a different quarterback. It's also a different Ryan Fitzpatrick.