The Indigenization policy announced by Zimbabwe’s new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, in 2017, has raised a lot of questions about the process of nationalisation and the methods that will be used to allow for equal distribution of capital, land, and business interests. It’s a policy that seems to favour the government at the expense of foreign interests and brings into question whether or not the government has a commitment to fighting corruption and seeking justice.\n\nThe new policy has been met with much scrutiny both in Zimbabwe and internationally. Many have expressed concern that the implementation of the policy will be flawed and that it will ultimately lead to a worsening of the economic situation in Zimbabwe. The Zimbabwean opposition party, Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), has expressed its disapproval of the policy, stating that it will further marginalise Zimbabweans who aren’t involved in the government or who support the opposition.\n\nOn the international level, the Indigenisation policy is one of the latest changes to the Zimbabwean government that have raised concern. Since he took office in November 2017, President Mnangagwa has brought the central bank and the national oil company under government control. This has led to further speculation about the political and economic direction that the government intends to take.\n\nIs the policy legal?\n\nThe Indigenisation policy was initially announced in 2010 and later replaced by another policy called the Zimbabwe Agenda for Sustainable Socio-Economic Transformation (Zim-Asset). The Zim-Asset policy, which was issued in 2013, introduced a set of guidelines for the process of indigenisation. It requires that 51% of all Zimbabwean businesses be transferred to the country’s black majority. However, the policy has never been enforced.\n\nThe decision to revive the policy in 2017 has been widely criticised. Human Rights Watch (HRW) issued a statement urging Mnangagwa to repeal the policy. HRW believes that the policy will only exacerbate the poor economic situation in Zimbabwe. The statement also notes that the government has never properly implemented the policy. It states that “the fact that no businesses have been indigenized in the past six years suggests that it is unworkable, and that it will not contribute to economic development or job creation.”\n\nAs a member of the African Union, Zimbabwe is bound to uphold the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights, which contains specific provisions regarding the protection of private property. These provisions state that the Charter guarantees the rights to private property ownership and the right to participate in the management of natural resources"