"Herreshoff was born on 5 December 1869 in Nova Scotia, Canada to Robert and Emily (née Doughty) Herreshoff. He was one of nine children, three of whom became notable. His brother, Nathanael Greene Herreshoff, was a naval architect and his younger brother, Albert Julius Herreshoff, was a yacht designer. Herreshoff was first employed as a machinist with the New York Shipbuilding Company. He began his own engineering company, but with his brother, Nathanael Greene Herreshoff, left for Newport, Rhode Island in the early 1890s to start another. In 1892 he married Pauline Robinson and they had two sons and two daughters. He was elected a member of the American Society of Naval Engineers in 1897.\n\nHerreshoff invented and patented a number of devices, including a differential gear, a gyrocompass, and a gyroscopic compass, among others. His wife's uncle, the Reverend Charles Doughty, invented the horse tread wheel and his father Robert Herreshoff, who was a prolific inventor, held many patents, including one for the screw propeller.\n\nAfter several years of successful yacht building, Herreshoff and his brother, Nathanael Greene, bought a former frigate, USS Wyoming, from the United States Navy, and converted it into a yacht for Alfred G. Vanderbilt. The boat won the America's Cup in 1895.\n\nIn 1903, Herreshoff designed the popular 12 Metre class sloops Gladiator and Mayflower. This was followed by the 12-Metre class Sweet Briar, and later by the 15-Metre class Solace.\n\nIn 1907 Herreshoff moved his shipyard to Bristol, Rhode Island, where he built several large yachts, including the 1907 Gloucester fishing schooner Herreshoff No.1, designed to take the Gloucester fisherman out to fishing grounds further from the shore than ever before. This innovation proved the concept of the "dragger" fishing boat, which revolutionized the industry. Herreshoff went on to build more than 600 fishing boats at Bristol. In the 1920s, the Bristol yard began building boats under contract for Hinckley Yachts. After their first contract, they were allowed to put the HINCKLEY name on the transom, leading to the popular name "HINckley YAchts" or "Hinckley Yachts".\n\nHerreshoff's career was interrupted by World War I. He joined the United States Navy in 1917 and rose to the rank of lieutenant commander by the end of the war. He was in charge of the Navy's experimental projects, and in 1918 invented a special compass that allowed aircraft to navigate safely to their destinations without human assistance.\n\nAfter the war, Herreshoff returned to private yacht design. He built a total of 157 vessels, including America's Cup defenders Reliance (1914), Resolute (1916), Ranger (1918) and Rainbow (1920), as well as 12-Meter defenders Vigilant (1919), Defender (1922) and Vigilant (1924).\n\nHerreshoff died on 21 January 1950 at his home in Barrington, Rhode Island.