October 19, 2015\n\nOnce again we find ourselves reflecting on our own good fortune as we consider the news from Paris. We are not only alive, but many of us have access to a wealth of luxury, both intellectual and material, that few of our ancestors would have dreamed of. And we also have access to media that have transformed the world. One of my sons recently discovered the fascinating series “How the Universe Works” (available on Netflix). This is a television show, with a high-tech production budget, and it is fascinating. It has some of the best images of the stars and planets ever produced, with an engaging story to go with them. The soundtrack alone is amazing. I highly recommend it. But it only works because of our technology, which has the power to tell stories across the globe.\n\nYou don’t have to leave the planet for science to reach you. It’s right there in your living room.\n\nToday I read a story in the paper about a study that examined the safety of exercise and high protein diets. This study was designed to answer a question that most of us have faced at some point: should I cut back on protein? My story pointed out that the study was very small and inconclusive, but the real story is about how we learn about our world and why this study is inconclusive. It is a story that has been repeated again and again. When new information comes out, we all read it with the same kind of judgment that you would apply to a restaurant: is this place worth my time and money? The more of it you eat, the more of it you want to read. When I read the story in the paper, I didn’t try to understand the process by which the authors made their conclusions. Instead, I simply had a gut reaction: was the story worth the cost of the information it contained?\n\nThat is the only real question that matters when we choose what to read. This question is especially important today because there is so much information out there. When the costs of information are low, it becomes much easier to consume, and with this abundance comes the difficulty of choosing what to read. So we focus on our gut. And this is because we have a brain designed to make these kinds of choices, one that is driven by emotional needs, not rational ones. We are not designed to rationally evaluate the content of each article, but instead we are designed to make emotional decisions about what to consume.\n\nThis point was well illustrated by some research done by scientists at the University of Michigan. They had two groups of subjects: one that was told to read a story that was fun and amusing, and one that was told to read a story that was sad. Then they had them make some choices about the food they would eat for the next week. The group that had been reading the sad story ate 25% fewer calories than the group that had been reading the amusing story. Why? Well, they thought that food was a reward, and since they had been unhappy in the experiment, they cut back on the number of rewards that they would give themselves. This is a very rational process, but the very fact that they were not looking at the process that led them to their choice means that it had to be some form of emotional response.\n\nIn this way, we respond to information much like we respond to food. Food provides us with energy and pleasure, so it is important to choose it well. So we think in terms of gut decisions, not because they are the best ones, but because they help us to cope with our lives. Information is also a source of energy and pleasure, and so we choose it as well.\n\nBut while we are creatures that make emotional choices about our food and information, we also have other needs. These are needs that were emphasized by the process of evolution: needs to know about the world and needs to know about ourselves. So when we read articles, or watch television, or go on social media, we need to know whether they provide this type of knowledge as well.\n\nMost of the time we are looking for a story that is interesting, and that will hold our attention. But we also want a story that tells us something about our world. The better the story is, the more likely we are to learn from it. A story about calories and exercise might not be particularly interesting, but it is important for us to know. A story about the stars and planets might be fascinating, but it doesn’t matter if it is a good story or not.\n\nThis is because we need information about our world to survive and to thrive, and we know this to be true because it is encoded in our DNA. Our brains have evolved to help us process the information that we receive, and so it makes sense that we"