"Filth was first made into a play for the BBC’s series of television plays in 2003, featuring Ewan McGregor, as a detective called Bruce Robertson. I don’t think it’s too far fetched to say that Bruce is the Scottish version of Neil Buchanan in American Psycho. Not necessarily in terms of the content of the story, but in the sheer fact that he is a very messed up guy, one who people can’t stand, but at the same time can’t stop looking at him.\n\nThis character is played to perfection by Jonny Lee Miller in the new film adaptation of Filth. The novel follows Bruce Robertson (Miller) a detective who, after starting the story off as a drunken, bitter asshole, finds out that he has cancer and so takes leave to get himself checked out. This action in turn leads to Bruce discovering that he is actually a massive pervert. He becomes obsessed with performing the most unspeakable of actions in order to be like the perverts that he so despises. The film follows Bruce as he conducts an investigation to find the person responsible for him being a terrible person and while he is still struggling with his illness.\n\nWhat is great about this adaptation is that it keeps the nastiness and the gritty, unpleasant content that is in the book. That might be what stops this film from being a complete success because this film is a difficult watch. It’s not so difficult because of the content but because you will be so incredibly frustrated by the main character. He is an unpleasant person who you don’t want to spend time with.\n\nIt’s a testament to Miller’s performance that he makes you want to keep watching even though you can’t stand him. It’s this nastiness that he exudes that makes him so engaging to watch. You will want to know how his investigation turns out and what his next move is, because he is truly awful. It also helps that he looks incredibly creepy, like he would kill someone at the slightest provocation.\n\nBruce is helped by a fantastic supporting cast. Jon Skellern plays Bruce’s best friend Simon. You can tell that Simon has his concerns for Bruce and that his concern for him will only continue to grow as Bruce’s behaviour becomes worse. Simon acts as the voice of reason when it comes to Bruce and does his best to help him, only to be shut down by Bruce’s barbs and by Bruce himself. Kelly Macdonald plays Bruce’s wife Susan. While Bruce gets into scrapes with his fellow detectives, Susan is struggling to cope with him and his illness. It’s obvious that Susan is struggling with her husband’s condition, and you will feel for her throughout the film.\n\nThere are a lot of big names in this film that will be recognisable to most people. Jonny Lee Miller, so good as Sherlock Holmes, plays Bruce with a brilliant blend of ferocity and uncertainty. While he is fully committed to the disgusting nature of his character, he also seems like he could completely lose it at any minute. Stephen Fry is outstanding as Inspector Siobhan Clarke, who is one of the few people who is able to make Bruce think twice about the things he does. Everyone is perfectly cast and help to make this film feel incredibly authentic.\n\nThe film does do a good job of adapting the book. Although the source material is sometimes over the top, the film takes that feeling and amplifies it to the next level. What is great about this film is that you do believe that all the characters are real people. You get a real sense of the community that Bruce has around him and that is what helps to make the film so engaging. You want to know what is going to happen to Bruce and how he is going to get out of the situations that he has put himself into.\n\nFilth is a good adaptation of the novel by Irvine Welsh. It does have the same nastiness that is in the novel, which is great for those of you who enjoy watching people doing things that you shouldn’t be watching. The acting is excellent, with a standout performance from Jonny Lee Miller, who takes the idea of a horrible person to a whole new level. It’s not the most pleasant of films to watch, but it’s certainly one of the most engaging.