"Gonzaga’s Zach Collins, right, and Johnathan Williams react to a play during the Bulldogs’ matchup against San Diego State at Viejas Arena in San Diego on Dec. 3. The Bulldogs won, 78-59. (Photo: AP)\n\nThe always-lively discussion of the NCAA Tournament selection committee's biggest and best blunders (which usually is a list of blunders) has been further fueled by a freshman who's now in the mix for being one of the biggest and best picks of the first round in Thursday night's draft.\n\nAnd by all accounts, Gonzaga's Zach Collins was, in fact, one of the biggest and best players in the nation this past season.\n\nDarn it, somebody in the official outfit that has the Final Four placements, the brackets and the selections did a superb job in providing a team that was vastly superior to a top-10 team with a second chance to participate in a college basketball tournament.\n\nZach Collins, a 7-foot, 230-pound center from Las Vegas, was the team's third-leading scorer this past season, behind Przemek Karnowski and point guard Nigel Williams-Goss.\n\nBuy Photo University of Nevada head basketball coach Eric Musselman coaches during the second half of his team's NCAA basketball game against the Boise State Broncos at Lawlor Events Center in Reno on Thursday, February 16, 2017. Nevada won 76-69. (Photo: Tom R. Smedes/Special to the RGJ, Tom R. Smedes/Special to the RGJ)\n\nCollins was instrumental in Gonzaga's winning the West Coast Conference tournament and advancing to the Elite Eight. He scored 20 points in the first half in the opening-round win over Texas Southern, and that was one of the top performances in the tourney.\n\nCollins is slated as a lottery pick in the draft. His brother, 6-9-180 center John Collins of Wake Forest, also is in the mix as a first-round pick.\n\nHere's the thing: What if Collins had chosen to play for the Wolf Pack this past season? The WCC would have been a little bit better. The Zags would have been less impressive.\n\nHe would have played in the Mountain West, and in most cases, there was not a huge discrepancy between the Mountain West and the WCC in the 2016-17 season. In the first seven games of the season, Nevada won five times, which was nearly identical to the Zags' win total over the same period.\n\nFor the season, Gonzaga was 33-2, and Nevada was 28-7. The Zags played in the NCAA Tournament. The Wolf Pack didn't.\n\nWas Collins a first-round pick in that alternate reality? Probably not, but there's a good chance he would have been drafted, and it would have been by one of the NBA teams that had an interest in him.\n\nWilliams-Goss decided to transfer to Gonzaga from Washington, but had he stayed in Seattle, Collins would have been recruited by the Huskies. In the end, it may have been a long shot that Collins would have accepted the scholarship, but then again, who knew he would be such a talent?\n\nBut, maybe Collins did decide to play for the Wolf Pack, and then maybe Williams-Goss stayed in Seattle. And then maybe Collins and Williams-Goss played against each other for the championship of the Mountain West in 2016-17, and maybe it would have been a game for the ages.\n\nCollins, who averaged 10.0 points and 5.9 rebounds for the Zags, and Williams-Goss, who averaged 17.7 points and 6.0 assists, were both vital to the outcome of that hypothetical contest.\n\nAnd it may have gone down as one of the best games in league history. But you and I will never know.