Cardiac intervention in men is a critical procedure performed with the best equipment available. Sometimes, however, there are complications that are difficult to solve. For example, the images provided by a coronary angiography may not be clear enough for the doctor to determine the problem. In this situation, it is necessary to perform an intervention for coronary angioplasty. This is a technique that was introduced in the 1970s and has been improved many times over the years.\n\nWhat is coronary angioplasty?\n\nCoronary angioplasty is a technique that allows the narrowing of a coronary artery to be dilated. This is done with the use of a catheter that has a flexible balloon at its end. This is inflated and deflated so that the artery is dilated. Once the dilation is achieved, a stent is implanted to keep the artery dilated and allow blood to flow properly. The stent is a small metal ring that is placed inside the lumen of the artery. It acts as a scaffold and prevents the vessel from closing. This is important because, if this happened, the part of the heart that receives blood from this artery would not receive any more.\n\nCoronary angioplasty is performed under general anesthesia. The patient is given nitroglycerin so that the pain caused by the dilation of the artery is less intense. Sometimes, if the patient has chest pain, an injection of painkillers may be needed.\n\nAfter the procedure is completed, the patient is observed to make sure he has not had any complications. If the patient develops a hematoma, the artery is usually clamped again and the hematoma is removed by inserting a small wire.\n\nThe risk of complications is low. They can develop in patients who have had angioplasty many times or who have had previous heart attacks.\n\nThe main advantage of angioplasty is that it provides immediate relief for the patient. If the stent works well, the patient may need to take medication for the rest of his life. This is an important advantage for those who have suffered a heart attack and are at risk of a second one.\n\nIn certain cases, it is necessary to repeat the intervention several times until the lumen of the artery becomes stable. Usually, the procedure is done after 4-6 weeks, depending on the patient’s progress.