People of quality, including scholars and saints, do not engage in abusive or hurtful language, because such speech undermines the sacredness of language.\n\nDerek Attridge, in his book "Bare Speech", makes a distinction between "bad language" and "non-standard dialect". Bad language is what one might encounter in slums or in prison, while non-standard dialect is the language that you might encounter in regional speech. Standard English, in that sense, is the non-standard dialect of people of quality.\n\nDerek Attridge's point, however, is that standard English and bad language are really not so different. Language itself is an arbitrary set of conventions. The only reason why we have English speakers today is because some group of Anglo-Saxons decided to create a specific set of linguistic conventions.\n\nIf a new group of people were to colonize the US, they could create a new set of linguistic conventions and from that point on everyone would be speaking the new language. No one has an inherent right to the use of English. They can use it because they are powerful and/or because they are respected and/or because they have an intrinsic desire to be an active participant in the community of people who speak English.\n\nThere is nothing special about English. As the British comedian Stephen Fry puts it, English is just the language that he happened to hear when he was a baby, the same way that a child in America hears English and a child in France hears French.\n\nDerek Attridge's point is that we don't see people of quality engage in the use of bad language, but we also don't see them engaging in the use of non-standard dialect.\n\nI would argue that there is a form of bad language that we do not see in the 21st century. That is bad language that is directed towards a particular individual or group. We call that kind of bad language "hate speech".\n\nThere was a time in the early 20th century when it was considered "bad" to use words that referred to people of color. That was not because that language was "non-standard" but rather because it was seen as a form of hate speech that was designed to degrade the group to which it referred. The same holds for other categories of people including women, the poor, the disabled, Jews, Catholics, and the list goes on.\n\nAt that time, there were laws in place to enforce that prohibition. The example that comes to mind is a play called "Abraham Lincoln" which portrayed Abraham Lincoln in a way that was considered offensive by many Americans.\n\nAs you may know, the production of that play in New York City was the result of a long legal battle in which the courts ruled in favor of those who felt that the production of that play was in violation of the First Amendment.\n\nToday, we are not as aware of the hate speech directed at people of color, women, the disabled, the poor, and so on. When we do encounter it, however, we generally feel a deep sense of shame. The use of language to degrade someone else because of their race, gender, or sexual orientation is viewed as a symptom of a failure of our society.\n\nThat is why we see the rise of the "public shaming" of bigots. Instead of having the law, we now expect people to discipline themselves, to police themselves.\n\nIn fact, it may even be the case that there are certain forms of hate speech that the law does not even address. For example, if I were to use the word "gay" as a slur, the law might not be able to prosecute me, because it is the social practice of many people not to use that word to refer to homosexuals, even if it is technically in the dictionary.\n\nThe same is true for other words. For example, the use of the word "retard" as a slur for the disabled is becoming less acceptable. People still use that word, but they are aware that it is offensive, and so there is a pressure on them to avoid it.\n\nIn short, what we might be seeing is the gradual rise of the standard dialect, such that people are less and less likely to use language that is offensive to others. But what about those words that are offensive because they are simply incorrect?\n\nIf there is no such thing as "non-standard dialect", what we are really talking about is language that is, simply put, wrong. Those of us who are the least educated and the least socially powerful are those most likely to speak incorrect or even incoherent language. We need to be corrected, so that we are aware of how to use language correctly.\n\nThe use of language is an act of respect. When people are mistreated, the language that is used is often hurtful and abusive. When we learn to use language properly, then we will see a greater respect for other people.\n\nPhoto by Pixelgrafica .\n\nPhoto by Mr TinDC .\n\nResources\n\nBibliography