"BENGALURU: A man from Bengaluru has alleged that his wife faked her death for a huge insurance payout . Jayakumar, 45, has been battling the insurance company for years, after his wife, Lakshmamma, 44, 'died' of liver cancer in February 2011.Jayakumar had claimed a sum of Rs 11 lakh, which the insurance company, after scrutiny, paid him a part of it. However, they suspected foul play and sent Lakshmamma to the police. She was found to be alive and was charged for fraud by the police. After much wrangling, the couple had returned the money, but continued to fight the case. After repeated hearings, the police filed a B report. In a twist to the tale, the High Court, last week, ordered the insurance company to pay Jayakumar the remaining Rs 6 lakh, plus an interest of 9%. The judgment also directed the police to remove the charges against the woman. "I was forced to return the money and still had to fight for the insurance money," Jayakumar told TOI.When he was working at a bank, Lakshmamma was a bank manager. They met in the early 90s and married in 1997. "She was a simple woman, I never expected her to do such a thing. She would wake up early and leave for work, only to return late. My neighbours said she was always out," said Jayakumar, adding that she was always out of station for official duties.When he asked her about it, she would come up with excuses. But in the third month of their marriage, he had gone to her office and saw her chatting with another man. "She was talking to him like a lover, I was shocked. When I questioned her, she said that it was none of my business," Jayakumar told TOI.A year later, in February 2011, Jayakumar said Lakshmamma started having stomach pain. "I took her to a private hospital, where she was diagnosed with liver cancer. She was then admitted to another private hospital. She died in February 2011," he said.However, Jayakumar said she did not die. He said that the insurance company officials told him that she was alive. Jayakumar registered a case against her in August 2012. "She then told the court that she had lost her life certificates and other important documents," he said.The police said Lakshmamma got the death certificate in September 2011. "We arrested Lakshmamma on February 2, 2012, and released her on bail. We have filed a B report. She has returned the money and has been cleared of all charges," said an officer.