"Glacier Ridge Christian School\n\nGlacier Ridge Christian School is a private Christian school in Johnstown, Ohio. It was founded in the fall of 1999 by Gary and Tammy Smith.\n\nThe school started with just 13 students in grades 5-8. By the end of the first year, the school had grown to 65 students in those same grades. As the school has continued to grow, so has the number of teachers.\n\nBy the year 2009, Glacier Ridge had expanded to offer a preschool through 12th grade education, and the school had grown to almost 200 students. In the fall of 2013, the enrollment was over 300 students.\n\nThe school started with the first graduating class of 2002. They are now on their 11th graduating class, and the school's graduates continue to receive acceptance to universities across the United States. The school offers several Advanced Placement classes.\n\nGlacier Ridge has had its students participate in various competitions and competitions. Most notable are the sports teams, especially their basketball teams, which have qualified for state competition multiple times. The school has also had various music groups participate in state and regional competitions, and in the 2010-2011 school year, the school sent students to participate in an International Children's Games competition in Romania.\n\nIn the 2010-2011 school year, a group of the school's teachers were sent to Haiti to help establish a new orphanage, "Eli's Children's House", which was dedicated to Eli Pierre, who had died in a motorcycle accident. They were instrumental in bringing the orphanage into the community by helping establish new programs for the children, including English as a Second Language, Computer Lab, and Physical Education classes. The teachers assisted in the education of the orphans as well as working with the staff on the property.\n\nThe school has also taken various trips over the years, including trips to Virginia and New York City. The school also hosted an educational trip to Washington D.C. for one of their graduating classes.\n\nThe school has participated in various community events and service projects. One of the most notable is their annual "Twilight Prom" that is held each spring. Each year, the school hosts a prom for local high school students who have special needs. The students' dates are typically their own siblings.\n\nOn March 21, 2011, a fire destroyed the school's auditorium, causing over $1 million in damages. After the school received an outpouring of support, the school was able to begin construction on a new auditorium in time for the next school year.\n\nIn 2015, Glacier Ridge Christian School became part of the Christian School Association of Northeast Ohio.\n\nThe School is affiliated with the Association of Christian Schools International, the Ohio Christian Education Association, and the Christian School Association of Northeast Ohio.\n\n